Characterization of a New Xylanase Found in the Rumen Metagenome and Its Effects on the Hydrolysis of Wheat. Wheat is the main ingredient of poultry diet, but its xylan has an adverse impact on poultry production. A novel xylanase from beef cattle rumen metagenome (RuXyn) and its effect on the wheat hydrolysis were investigated in the present study. The RuXyn coded for 377 amino acids and exhibited low identity (<40%) to previously reported proteins. The RuXyn was heterologously expressed in Escherichia coli and showed maximum activity at pH 6.0 and 40 °C. The activity of RuXyn could be increased by 79.8 and 36.0% in the presence of Ca2+and Tween 20, respectively. The soluble xylan and insoluble xylan in wheat could be effectively degraded by RuXyn and xylooligosaccharides produced accounting for more than 80% of the products. This study demonstrates that RuXyn has substantial potential to improve the application of wheat in poultry production by degrading wheat xylan and the accompanying xylooligosaccharides produced.
Optimizing the path of seedling low-density transplanting by using greedy genetic algorithm. Automated transplanters perform repetitive low-density transplanting and replugging of seedlings in greenhouses to resolve the labor shortage problem and consistently produce seedlings. The work efficiency of transplanters can be improved by optimizing the transplanting paths of end effectors. In this study, a greedy genetic algorithm (GGA) was developed for path optimization. GGA combines the characteristics of a greedy algorithm (GRA) and a genetic algorithm (GA). The performances of GGA, GRA, GA, and the common sequence method (CSM) in the path planning for seedling low-density transplanting were compared in terms of their optimization effects and computation time. Average transplanting paths were analyzed for sparse (32 and 50 holes) and dense (72 and 128 holes) seedling trays with 5%–20% randomly located vacant holes. Compared with the average optimization ratio of CSM, those of GA, GGA, and GRA were 10%, 8.7%, and 5.1%, respectively, for sparse trays, whereas 13.9%, 13.4%, and 11.8%, respectively, for dense trays. The standard deviations of GGA and GA overlapped in different vacant holes for the dense trays. The performance ranking of the suitable methods with short average paths was in the order of GA, GGA, and GRA. The superiority of GA over GGA gradually decreased with the increasing number of vacant and tray holes. The computation of path planning must satisfy the real-time operating requirement of transplanters. GA, GGA, and GRA consumed 9.61, 2.82, and 0.02 s, respectively, for the path planning for the dense trays. Compared with GA and GRA, GGA performed effectively in the path planning of seedling low-density transplanting due to its comprehensive performance derived from its path optimization ratio and low computation time cost. This combined optimization algorithm could have similar agricultural applications.
Sequence analysis of the membrane protein V3 of the flavivirus west nile virus and of its gene. Flaviviruses contain a large membrane-associated protein V3, having a mol mass of about 50 kDa which is responsible for hemagglutination. We have isolated the V3 protein from the West Nile (WN) flavivirus and determined its amino-terminal amino acid sequence and amino acid sequences of fragments derived from this protein. We have also transcribed parts of the WN virus genome RNA into cDNA and cloned and sequenced this CDNA. The results of these analyses have allowed us to identify the region of the viral genome coding for the V3 protein. In this report we describe the total nucleotide sequence of the genome region coding for the WN virus V3 protein and the amino acid sequence of the V3 protein derived from these analyses. The exact carboxy terminus of the V3 protein has not been determined in these experiments. These analyses have shown that the V3 protein of WN virus does not contain an Asn-X-Ser/Thr sequence which could allow addition of N-linked carbohydrate chains to this protein. In accordance with this finding, analyses of metabolic labeling of the V3 protein using [3H]glucosamine indicate that the WN virus V3 protein is an unglycosylated protein. Together with our earlier analyses these results show that the viral structural proteins are present on the genome RNA in the order 5′-terminuscore protein (V2)-small membrane-associated protein (NV2)-large membrane-associated protein (V3) and describe the nucleotide sequences coding for all WN virus structural proteins identified so far. A hypothesis concerning the processes involved in the synthesis of all viral structural proteins and the probable orientation of these proteins relative to the endoplasmatic reticulum membrane based on the structure of these proteins is discussed.
Population genomics in the arboviral vector Aedes aegypti reveals the genomic architecture and evolution of endogenous viral elements. Horizontal gene transfer from viruses to eukaryotic cells is a pervasive phenomenon. Somatic viral integrations are linked to persistent viral infection whereas integrations into germline cells are maintained in host genomes by vertical transmission and may be co-opted for host functions. In the arboviral vector Aedes aegypti, an endogenous viral element from a nonretroviral RNA virus (nrEVE) was shown to produce PIWI-interacting RNAs (piRNAs) to limit infection with a cognate virus. Thus, nrEVEs may constitute a heritable, sequence-specific mechanism for antiviral immunity, analogous to piRNA-mediated silencing of transposable elements. Here, we combine population genomics and evolutionary approaches to analyse the genomic architecture of nrEVEs in A. aegypti. We conducted a genome-wide screen for adaptive nrEVEs and searched for novel population-specific nrEVEs in the genomes of 80 individual wild-caught mosquitoes from five geographical populations. We show a dynamic landscape of nrEVEs in mosquito genomes and identified five novel nrEVEs derived from two currently circulating viruses, providing evidence of the environmental-dependent modification of a piRNA cluster. Overall, our results show that virus endogenization events are complex with only a few nrEVEs contributing to adaptive evolution in A. aegypti.
Large crown root number improves topsoil foraging and phosphorus acquisition. Suboptimal phosphorus (P) availability is a primary constraint to plant growth on Earth. We tested the hypothesis that maize (Zea mays) genotypes with large crown root number (CN) will have shallower rooting depth and improved P acquisition from low-P soils. Maize recombinant inbred lines with contrasting CN were evaluated under suboptimal P availability in greenhouse mesocosms and the field. Under P stress in mesocosms, the large-CN phenotype had 48% greater root respiration, 24% shallower rooting depth, 32% greater root length density in the topsoil, 37% greater leaf P concentration, 48% greater leaf photosynthesis, 33% greater stomatal conductance, and 44% greater shoot biomass than the small-CN phenotype. Under P stress in the field, the large-CN phenotype had 32% shallower rooting depth, 51% greater root length density in the topsoil, 44% greater leaf P concentration, 18% greater leaf photosynthesis, 21% greater stomatal conductance, 23% greater shoot biomass at anthesis, and 28% greater yield than the small-CN phenotype. These results support the hypothesis that large CN improves plant P acquisition from low-P soils by reducing rooting depth and increasing topsoil foraging. The large-CN phenotype merits consideration as a selection target to improve P capture in maize and possibly other cereal crops.
'Bacterial diversity in dry modern freshwater stromatolites from Ruidera Pools Natural Park, Spain. Ruidera Pools Natural Park, Spain, constitutes one of the most representative systems of carbonate precipitation in Europe. The prokaryotic community of a dry modern stromatolite recovered from the park has been analyzed by molecular techniques that included denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and 16S rRNA gene clone library analysis, together with microscopic observations from the sample and cultures. Ribosomal RNA was directly extracted to study the putatively active part of the microbial community present in the sample. A total of 295 16S rRNA gene sequences were analyzed. Libraries were dominated by sequences related to Cyanobacteria, most frequently to the genus Leptolyngbya. A diverse and abundant assemblage of non-cyanobacterial sequences was also found, including members of Firmicutes, Bacteroidetes, Proteobacteria, Actinobacteria, Acidobacteria, Planctomycetes and Chloroflexi groups. No amplification was obtained when using archaeal primers. The results showed that at the time of sampling, when the pool was dry, the bacterial community of the stromatolites was dominated by groups of highly related Cyanobacteria, including new groups that had not been previously reported, although a high diversity outside this phylogenetic group was also found. The results indicated that part of the Cyanobacteria assemblage was metabolically active and could thus play a role in the mineralization processes inside the stromatolites.
Functional characterization of an apple apomixis-related MhFIE gene in reproduction development. The products of the FIS genes play important regulatory roles in diverse developmental processes, especially in seed formation after fertilization. In this study, a FIS-class gene MhFIE was isolated from apple. It encoded a predicted protein highly similar to polycomb group (PcG) protein FERTILIZATION-INDEPENDENT ENDOSPERM (FIE). MhFIE functioned as an Arabidopsis FIE homologue, as indicated by functional complementation experiment using Arabidopsis fie mutant. In addition, BiFC assay showed that MhFIE protein interacted with AtCLF. Furthermore, transgenic Arabidopsis ectopically expressing MhFIE produced less APETALA3 (AtAP3) and AGAMOUS (AtAG) transcripts than WT control, and therefore exhibited abnormal flower, seed development. These results suggested that polycomb complex including FIE and CLF proteins played an important role in reproductive development by regulating the expression of its downstream genes. In addition, it was found that MhFIE constitutively expressed in various tissues tested. Its expression levels were lower in apomictic apple species than the sexual reproductive species, suggested it was possibly involved into apomixis in apple. Furthermore, the hybrids of tea crabapple generated MhFIE transcripts at different levels. The parthenogenesis capacity was negatively correlated with MhFIE expression level in these hybrids. These results suggested that MhFIE was involved into the regulation of flower development and apomixis in apple.
Optimization and validation of methods for isolation and real-time PCR identification of protozoan oocysts on leafy green vegetables and berry fruits. Leafy green vegetables and berry fruits have vastly different physical and biochemical characteristics, are typically consumed raw with minimal washing, and are potential transmission vehicles for food-borne disease caused by protozoan parasites such as Cryptosporidium, Cyclospora and Toxoplasma. Validation of a generic oocyst isolation and detection method applicable to each leafy green and berry type is required to provide reliable laboratory support for surveillance programs and as necessary for disease outbreak investigations. The objectives of the current study were to optimize and validate the performance of these methods for the isolation of protozoan oocysts from several types of leafy greens and berries. Eimeria papillata oocysts were used as a surrogate for coccidia of public health concern to spike produce samples. An artificial stomacher or orbital shaker was used, followed by centrifugation, to isolate and concentrate oocysts, respectively, and a qPCR melt curve analysis (qPCR MCA) was used for detection and identification. Processing methods, wash buffers and storage conditions were evaluated and optimized for five types of berries (blackberries, blueberries, cranberries, raspberries and strawberries), five types of herb (cilantro, dill, mint, parsley, thyme) and green onions. Blackberries, cranberries, raspberries and strawberries were most effectively washed by orbital shaking with an elution solution, while glycine buffer was more effective for blueberries. Stomaching with a glycine buffer was optimal for oocyst recovery in leafy herbs with soft stems, while aromatic woody-stemmed herbs such as thyme required orbital shaking to minimize the release of PCR inhibitors. Oocyst recovery from green onions was highest when processed by orbital shaking with elution solution. Oocyst recovery rates ranged from 4.1-12% for berries and 5.1-15.5% for herbs and green onions. As few as 3 oocysts per gram of fruit, or 5 oocysts per gram of herbs or green onions could reliably be detected using the optimized isolation methods and qPCR MCA.
The first DNA barcodes for the Australian platypus tick ixodes ornithorhynchi lucas, 1846 (Acari: Ixodidae) to facilitate conservation efforts for a declining parasite and its host. Ixodes ornithorhynchi is one of Australia’s most cryptic tick species and is found only on the platypus (Ornithorhynchus anatinus). The first cytochrome c oxidase subunit 1 (CO1) sequences for this species are presented to facilitate molecular identification and conservation of both this tick species and its host.
Fine mapping and identification of tightly linked DNA markers of blast resistance gene Pia by using an introgression line. An introgression line (INL) for a major rice blast resistance gene, Pia, was developed, with the genetic background of a blast susceptible variety, US-2. The reaction pattern of the INL was characterized by using 20 standard blast isolates from the Philippines. The introgression of the Pia gene was confirmed by DNA markers on the short arm of chromosome 11 where Pia was previously mapped. A genome-wide DNA marker survey revealed that most of the chromosomal regions were US-2 type. By using an F2 population derived from a cross between the INL and US-2, the chromosomal location of the Pia locus was mapped between RM26281 and RM3701. For fine mapping of the Pia locus, five additional markers were developed based on the genomic sequence of the corresponding region of a japonica-type variety, Nipponbare. The candidate region of Pia was delimited between two DNA markers, RM26281 and 82N19365, corresponding to a 140 kb region on the Nipponbare genome sequence. We obtained three DNA markers within this region. The developed INL, information on the map position of Pia, and DNA markers developed in the candidate region of the Pia locus are useful tools for blast resistance studies and a marker-aided breeding strategy.
Antivirals acting on viral envelopes via biophysical mechanisms of action. Most antivirals target viral proteins and are specific for only one virus, or viral type. Whereas viral proteins are encoded in the plastic viral genome, virion lipids are not and their rearrangements during fusion are conserved among otherwise unrelated enveloped viruses. Antivirals that inhibit these lipid rearrangements could thus pose a high barrier to resistance and have broad-spectrum activity. Fusion occurs through a hemifusion stalk in which only the outer leaflets are fused and thus curved with a smaller radius for the polar heads than for the hydrophobic tails (negative curvature). Outer leaflets enriched in phospholipids with head groups of larger cross sections than their lipid tails (“inverted cone”) disfavor negative curvature, inhibiting fusion. The rigid amphipathic fusion inhibitors (RAFIs) are synthetic compounds of inverted cone molecular geometry. They inhibit infectivity of otherwise unrelated enveloped viruses. The leading RAFI, aUY11, has an ethynyl-perylene hydrophobic and an uracil-arabinose polar moiety. aUY11 intercalates in viral envelopes and inhibits virion-to-cell fusion of a broad spectrum of otherwise unrelated enveloped viruses. Previous studies showed that amphipathicity, rigidity, and inverted cone molecular geometry were required. We propose that the inverted cone molecular geometry of the RAFIs increases the energy barrier for the hemifusion stalk, inhibiting fusion. Then, chemically distinct compounds with similar amphipathicity, rigidity, and inverted cone shape would have similar antiviral potencies, regardless of specific chemical groups. Alternatively, the perylene group exposed to visible light may induce viral lipid peroxidation. Then, the perylene group and absorbance at visible spectrum would be required. We now evaluated twenty-five chemically distinct RAFIs. The perylene moiety and absorption at visible spectrum were not required, but a minimum length of the hydrophobic moiety was, 10.3 Å. The arabino moiety could be modified or replaced by other groups. Cytidine was not tolerated. Bilayer intercalation was required but not sufficient. The vast majority of RAFIs had no overt cytotoxicity (CC50 > 20 μM; TI > 250–1200). Carbonyl or butylamide substitutions for arabino, or cytidine replacement for uracil, increased cytotoxicity. Cytotoxicity was mainly determined by the polar moiety and there was no correlation between antiviral and cytostatic activities. The definition of the effects of shape and chemical groups of the RAFIs opens the possibility to the rational design of lipid-acting antivirals active against a broad spectrum of enveloped viruses.
Intra-chromosomal gene conversion induced by a DNA double-strand break in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. We have stimulated mitotic and meiotic gene conversion between non-tandem direct repeats of ADE4 by a defined double-strand break imparted in vivo to one of two copies of the gene. The experimental design permitted us to distinguish unambiguously between reciprocal intra-chromosomal crossing over and non-reciprocal break-join events that could accompany the induced conversions. We observed that (1) less than 10% of the induced conversion events are accompanied by intra-chromosomal crossing over in both mitosis and meiosis; (2) non-reciprocal break-join is not stimulated by the double-strand breaks; (3) a double-strand break in meiosis is repaired off intra-chromosomal homology (if available) with approximately sevenfold preference over repair off the homologous chromosome. Our observations, analyzed in the light of previous investigations of spontaneous inter and intra-chromosomal crossing over and gene conversion, lead to the view that chromosomal configuration constrains intra-chromosomal crossing over accompanying conversion between closely spaced repeated genes during resolution of the conversion intermediate
Extracellular nanovesicles released from the commensal yeast Malassezia sympodialis are enriched in allergens and interact with cells in human skin. Malassezia sympodialis is a dominant commensal fungi in the human skin mycobiome but is also associated with common skin disorders including atopic eczema (AE). M. sympodialis releases extracellular vesicles, designated MalaEx, which are carriers of small RNAs and allergens, and they can induce inflammatory cytokine responses. Here we explored how MalaEx are involved in host-microbe interactions by comparing protein content of MalaEx with that of the parental yeast cells, and by investigating interactions of MalaEx with cells in the skin. Cryo-electron tomography revealed a heterogeneous population of MalaEx. iTRAQ based quantitative proteomics identified in total 2439 proteins in all replicates of which 110 were enriched in MalaEx compared to the yeast cells. Among the MalaEx enriched proteins were two of the M. sympodialis allergens, Mala s 1 and s 7. Functional experiments indicated an active binding and internalization of MalaEx into human keratinocytes and monocytes, and MalaEx were found in close proximity of the nuclei using super-resolution fluorescence 3D-SIM imaging. Our results provides new insights into host-microbe interactions, supporting that MalaEx may have a role in the sensitization and maintenance of inflammation in AE by containing enriched amounts of allergens and with their ability to interact with skin cells.
Comparison of microplate hybridization with gel electrophoresis and dot blot hybridization for the rapid detection of Mycobacterium tuberculosis PCR products.. A microplate ELISA hybridization assay has been developed for the detection of the IS6110 PCR products of M. tuberculosis from sputum specimens. In this study, its efficacy was evaluated by comparison with agarose gel electrophoresis (AGE) and dot blot hybridization (DBH), with culture results as the 'gold standard'. The assay was used with 190 sputum samples: the PCR results detected by ELISA and AGE showed close agreement, with sensitivity, specificity and accuracy of 90%, 100% and 96% respectively. The same values for DBH were 92%, 98% and 96% respectively. The validities of these methods were not statistically significantly different (p>0.05). The agreement rates of PCR product detection by AGE comparing with DBH and ELISA were 0.964 and 0.964 respectively, while that of DBH and ELISA was 1.0 by Kappa analysis. The overall agreement was not statistically significantly different (p>0.05). Use of DBH or ELISA hybridization increased the sensitivity of detection by AGE 10-fold from 10 pg to 1 pg of purified DNA per reaction; ie from about 30 to about 3 organisms. The amount of PCR product detected by ELISA was only one half of that detected by the other methods; the total assay time of ELISA following the PCR was 4 hours. In conclusion, the microplate hybridization assay may replace AGE and DBH for the detection of the PCR products of M. tuberculosis because of its sensitivity, specificity and accuracy. Additional advantages of the microplate assay over AGE and DBH include rapidity, ease of use, greater safety, cost effectiveness and greater objectivity in the reading of results; the technique is suitable for use in epidemiological studies for the analysis of a large number of samples.
'Revealing cell cycle control by combining model-based detection of periodic expression with novel cis-regulatory descriptors. Background: We address the issue of explaining the presence or absence of phase-specific transcription in budding yeast cultures under different conditions. To this end we use a model-based detector of gene expression periodicity to divide genes into classes depending on their behavior in experiments using different synchronization methods. While computational inference of gene regulatory circuits typically relies on expression similarity (clustering) in order to find classes of potentially co-regulated genes, this method instead takes advantage of known time profile signatures related to the studied process. Results: We explain the regulatory mechanisms of the inferred periodic classes with cis-regulatory descriptors that combine upstream sequence motifs with experimentally determined binding of transcription factors. By systematic statistical analysis we show that periodic classes are best explained by combinations of descriptors rather than single descriptors, and that different combinations correspond to periodic expression in different classes. We also find evidence for additive regulation in that the combinations of cis-regulatory descriptors associated with genes periodically expressed in fewer conditions are frequently subsets of combinations associated with genes periodically expression in more conditions. Finally, we demonstrate that our approach retrieves combinations that are more specific towards known cell-cycle related regulators than the frequently used clustering approach. Conclusion: The results illustrate how a model-based approach to expression analysis may be particularly well suited to detect biologically relevant mechanisms. Our new approach makes it possible to provide more refined hypotheses about regulatory mechanisms of the cell cycle and it can easily be adjusted to reveal regulation of other, non-periodic, cellular processes.
Optimization Method of IR Thermography Facial Image Registration. So far, there have been many types of researches subject to technical requirements due to image registration. Using image registration can lower deviation from sequential images and make it possible to analyze the information variation of the particular area subsequently. This study provides a procedure creating fixed image based on the data of facial IR thermography, where its methods include the visual saliency map by detected image, as well as cluster algorithm. Comparison is also made here to solve the merits and demerits by affine parameter to reach the optimum measure among Genetic Algorithm, Particle Swarm Optimization, and Simulated Annealing Algorithm, where there are two control parameters concerning this experiment: one is the calculation of time confined each alignment, while the other one is to use parallel computing toolbox or not. The optimum method will be chosen by the values of the objective function based on the control parameters. Afterward, the optimal internal parameter is to be verified through the Taguchi experiment and the validity of this procedure in this study will be built following the parameter result as above. Therefore, the difference of images before and after alignment can be validated by overlapping the images before and after alignment as well as the image quality measurements, where its results reveal that the alignment procedure of IR thermography in this study is capable of performing human face alignment precisely, and subsequently, do help data statistics and analysis concerning temperature area interdependence.
The cellodextrinase from Pseudomonas fluorescens subsp. cellulosa consists of multiple functional domains. A genomic library of Pseudomonas fluorescens subsp. cellulosa DNA was constructed in pUC18 and Escherichia coli recombinants expressing 4-methylumbelliferyl β-D-cellobioside-hydrolysing activity (MUCase) were isolated. Enzyme produced by MUCase-positive clones did not hydrolyse either cellobiose or cellotriose but converted celiotetraose into cellobiose and eleaved cellopentaose and cellohexaose, producing a mixture of cellobiose and cellotriose. There was no activity against CM-cellulose, insoluble cellulose or xylan. On this basis, the enzyme is identified as an endo-acting cellodextrinase and is designated cellodextrinase C (CELC). Nucleotide sequencing of the gene (celC) which directs the synthesis of CELC revealed an open reading frame of 2153 bp, encoding a protein of M(r) 80189. The deduced primary sequence of CELC was confirmed by thc M(r) of purified CELC (77000) and by the experimentally determined N-terminus of the enzyme which was identical with residues 38-47 of the translated sequence. The N-terminal region of CELC showed strong homology with endoglucanase, xylanases and an arabinofuranosidase of Ps. fluorescens subsp. cellulosa; homologous sequences included highly conserved serine-rich regions. Full-length CELC bound tightly to crystalline cellulose. Truncated forms of celC from which the DNA sequence encoding the conserved domain had been deleted, directed the synthesis of a functional cellodextrinase that did not bind to crystalline cellulose. This is consistent with the N-terminal region of CELC comprising a non-catalytic cellulose-binding domain which is distinct from thc catalytic domain. The role of the cellulose-binding region is discussed.
Transport of D-galactose by the gastrointestinal tract of the locust, Locusta migratoria. Due to exoskeleton, the absorption of nutrients in adult insects takes place across the gastrointestinal tract epithelium. In most physiological studies, sugar intestinal absorption has been described as a diffusional process and to date no sugar transporter has been cloned from the digestive tract of insects. In the present work, the existence of a saturable transport system for galactose in the gastric caeca of Locusta migratoria is clearly demonstrated. This transport shows a relatively high affinity for galactose (apparent K 0.5 = 2-3 mM) and is inhibited by glucose, 2-deoxyglucose and with less potency by fructose and α-methyl-d-glucoside. The absence of sodium or the presence of phloridzin hardly affects galactose absorption, indicating that it is not mediated by a SGLT1-like transporter. The absence of K +, Cl-, Mg2+ and Ca2+ or changes in the pH do not modify galactose absorption either. Nevertheless, phloretin, cytochalasin B and theophylline (inhibitors of facilitative transporters) decrease sugar uptake around 50%. Xenopus laevis oocytes microinjected with poly A+ RNA isolated from gastric caeca show sodium-independent galactose uptake that is three times higher than in non-injected oocytes, further supporting the existence of a mRNA coding for at least one equilibrative sugar transporter in L. migratoria gastric caeca.
Anti-leukemic activities of alcoholic extracts of two traditional Indian medicinal plants. The present work aimed to investigate the anticancer in vitro activity of two plants commonly used in traditional Indian medicine: Zingiber officinale Roscoe and Nerium oleander L. The extracts of these plants were tested in vitro on several human leukemic cell lines, K562, THP-1, MOLT-4 and Jurkat. Cell growth inhibition was observed for both plant extracts with 50% inhibitory concentration (IC50) values ranging between 1 and 28 g/mL using SRB (sulphorodamine B) and MTT [3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide] assays. Enhanced cell growth inhibition was observed when the extracts were combined with imatinib. Exposed cells showed cell cycle arrest, DNA damage and cytochrome c release, indicating that the mechanism of cytotoxicity could be via mitochondrial mediated apoptotic pathways. Combination of the extracts of these plants with standard cancer treatment may be a way of enhancing responses. Clinical studies in patients with chronic myeloid leukemia are planned at our center.
Cholesterol-lowering effects of lactic acid bacteria isolated from Musa sapientum Linn.. Hypercholesterolemia is generally recognised as a risk factor for cardiovascular disease. Musa sapientum Linn. or Kluai Namwa (banana; ABB genome type) provides a functional nutrient in health promotion products and is a source of various probiotics. Lactic acid bacteria (LAB) isolated from several sources are reported with cholesterol-lowering potential. However, the effects of LAB isolated from bananas on total cholesterol are still unknown. The aim of this study is to investigate the cholesterol-removing ability of 5 LAB strains isolated from raw M. sapientum. All tested strains show a cholesterol-lowering property in species-and strain-dependent manner, with Weissella paramesenteroides NR27 being the most effective probiotic in reducing cholesterol concentration (P < 0.001). The removal of cholesterol by LAB is partially due to the production of bile salt hydrolase. All tested isolates exhibit more than 75% and 50% survival rates after challenging with simulated gastric and intestinal fluids respectively. Of these, W. paramesenteroides NR27 has a significantly higher survival rate (80%) in gastrointestinal conditions (P < 0.001), compared with all tested strains. In addition, antibiotic-resistant genes are not present in all drugs tested on this isolate. Therefore, W. paramesenteroides NR27 could be a promising probiotic candidate for reducing total cholesterol.
From molecules to multispecies ecosystems: The roles of structure in bacterial biofilms. Biofilms are communities of sessile microbes that are bound to each other by a matrix made of biopolymers and proteins. Spatial structure is present in biofilms on many lengthscales. These range from the nanometer scale of molecular motifs to the hundred-micron scale of multicellular aggregates. Spatial structure is a physical property that impacts the biology of biofilms in many ways. The molecular structure of matrix components controls their interaction with each other (thereby impacting biofilm mechanics) and with diffusing molecules such as antibiotics and immune factors (thereby impacting antibiotic tolerance and evasion of the immune system). The size and structure of multicellular aggregates, combined with microbial consumption of growth substrate, give rise to differentiated microenvironments with different patterns of metabolism and gene expression. Spatial association of more than one species can benefit one or both species, while distances between species can both determine and result from the transport of diffusible factors between species. Thus, a widespread theme in the biological importance of spatial structure in biofilms is the effect of structure on transport. We survey what is known about this and other effects of spatial structure in biofilms, from molecules up to multispecies ecosystems. We conclude with an overview of what experimental approaches have been developed to control spatial structure in biofilms and how these and other experiments can be complemented with computational work.
Establishment of a nested-ASP-PCR method to determine the clarithromycin resistance of Helicobacter pylori. AIM: To investigate clarithromycin resistance positions 2142, 2143 and 2144 of the 23SrRNA gene in Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori ) by nested-allele specific primer-polymerase chain reaction (nested-ASP-PCR). METHODS: The gastric tissue and saliva samples from 99 patients with positive results of the rapid urease test (RUT) were collected. The nested-ASP-PCR method was carried out with the external primers and inner allele-specific primers corresponding to the reference strain and clinical strains. Thirty gastric tissue and saliva samples were tested to determine the sensitivity of nested-ASP-PCR and ASP-PCR methods. Then, clarithromycin resistance was detected for 99 clinical samples by using different methods, including nested- ASP-PCR, bacterial culture and disk diffusion. RESULTS: The nested-ASP-PCR method was successfully established to test the resistance mutation points 2142, 2143 and 2144 of the 23SrRNA gene of H. pylori . Among 30 samples of gastric tissue and saliva, the H. pylori detection rate of nested-ASP-PCR was 90% and 83.33%, while the detection rate of ASP-PCR was just 63% and 56.67%. Especially in the saliva samples, nested-ASP-PCR showed much higher sensitivity in H. pylori detection and resistance mutation rates than ASP-PCR. In the 99 RUT-positive gastric tissue and saliva samples, the H. pylori -positive detection rate by nested-ASP-PCR was 87 (87.88%) and 67 (67.68%), in which there were 30 wild-type and 57 mutated strains in gastric tissue and 22 wild-type and 45 mutated strains in saliva. Genotype analysis showed that three-points mixed mutations were quite common, but different resistant strains were present in gastric mucosa and saliva. Compared to the high sensitivity shown by nested-ASP-PCR, the positive detection of bacterial culture with gastric tissue samples was 50 cases, in which only 26 drug-resistant strains were found through analyzing minimum inhibitory zone of clarithromycin. CONCLUSION: The nested-ASP-PCR assay showed higher detection sensitivity than ASP-PCR and drug sensitivity testing, which could be performed to evaluate clarithromycin resistance of H. pylori.
Stomatal and photochemical limitations of photosynthesis in coffee (Coffea spp.) plants subjected to elevated temperatures. Temperature increase assumes a prominent role in the context of expected climate change because of its significant impact on plant metabolism. High temperature can affect the carbon-assimilation pathway at both stomatal and non-stomatal levels, mainly through stomatal closure and photochemical and biochemical limitations. In general, however, plants have some ability to trigger acclimation mechanisms to cope with stressful conditions, especially if the limitations are imposed in a gradual manner during seasonal change. This study aims at evaluating changes at stomatal and photochemical levels in Coffea arabica and C. canephora under exposure to mild temperature (spring) and high temperature (summer). Potted plants were maintained in a greenhouse, watered to field capacity and subject to natural variations of light, temperature and relative humidity. In C. arabica, exposure to summer conditions decreased photosynthetic rates (A), stomatal conductance (gs) and stomatal density and increased intrinsic water-use efficiency (iWUE) compared with spring values, whereas C. canephora plants maintained similar values in both seasons. However, C. canephora presented lower A and gs during spring than C. arabica. Because photosynthetic capacity (Amax), photosynthetic performance index and membrane permeability were similar between genotypes and seasons, and maximum quantum yield (Fv/Fm) and photosynthetic pigments were not affected in C. arabica in summer, we conclude that under high temperature conditions, stomatal closure imposes the major limitation on C. arabica photosynthesis in summer. Finally, both coffee genotypes were able to avoid damage to photochemistry pathway under supra-optimal temperatures.
Integrated Optimization for EEDI and Minimum Propulsion Power. A practical integrated optimization model for EEDI and minimum propulsion power has been established. Main focus of this study is on the development of an efficient and effective method to optimize ship's main dimensions when targeting EEDI under the constraint of minimum propulsion power. The objective function EEDI associated with the resistance and self-propulsion performance is evaluated by the digital pattern of hydrodynamics performance for tanker series. Hull form deformation can be achieved by combining affine transformation and Lackenby's method, and the genetic algorithm is adopted. For the purpose of illustration, a VLCC has been chosen for the integrated optimization. It is shown that the integrated optimization model is reasonable and effective.
Expression of the Legume-Specific Nod Factor Receptor Proteins Alters Developmental and Immune Responses in Rice. Legumes form symbiosis with rhizobia, which fix nitrogen for the benefit of host plant in return for carbon resources. Development of this unique symbiosis in legumes is triggered by rhizobia-secreted nodulation (Nod) factors (NFs). NFs, upon perception, activate Nod signaling cascade, leading to reprogramming of host cell (root) developmental networks to pave way for accommodating rhizobial symbionts. A long-cherished goal of legume-rhizobia symbiosis research is to extend this symbiotic nitrogen-fixing capacity to cereal plants such as rice. As a part of achieving this ultimate goal, in this work, initially we expressed legume-specific Nod factor receptor protein (NFRP) genes, MtNFP, MtLYK3, and LjLNP, in rice and assessed their impact on NF perception and consequently triggered biological responses in roots. RNA-seq analysis revealed that roots of both control and NFRP-expressing plants perceive NFs, but NFs elicited contrasting impacts on gene expression patterns in roots of these plants. In contrast to suppressive role of NFs on expression of several genes involved in innate immune response in roots of control plants, in NFRP-expressing plants, NFs triggered massive upregulation of a vast array of genes associated with signaling, defense response, and secondary metabolism networks in roots. Expression of NFRPs in rice also conferred root hairs the ability to respond to NFs in terms of exhibiting deformations, albeit at low levels. Together, results of the study demonstrated that rice plants have inherent ability to perceive NFs, but the expression of legume NFRPs rendered rice roots hypersensitive to NFs.
High level secretion of recombinant staphylokinase into periplasm of Escherichia coli. The staphylokinase (SAK) gene from Staphylococcus aureus NCTC10033 was inserted into an expression vector, pKK-ompA, having a tac promoter and an ompA signal sequence. Escherchia coli JM109 carrying the recombinant plasmid produced and secreted the recombinant SAK (rSAK) at 15 ug/ml into periplasm and 5 ug/ml to extracellular media, respectively. The rSAK was purified with 59% yield by simple procedures from the periplasm of E. coli. The aminoterminal sequence and human plasminogen activating activity of rSAK were coincided with the authentic SAK.
Diagnosis and treatment of caprine dermatophilosis - A case report. A malabari doe presented with a history of skin problem and pruritus was diagnosed as dermatophilosis based on cultural isolation and identi- fication is reported. Molecular confirmation was done using Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) to amplify a 500 bp fragment of the 16S rRNA gene of D. congolensis.The animal was treated with Enrocin (Inj. Enrofloxacin) at a dose rate of 7 mg/kg body weight I/M once daily for three daysalong with topical povidone iodine application.
Positive selection in phytotoxic protein-encoding genes of Botrytis species. Evolutionary patterns of sequence divergence were analyzed in genes from the fungal genus Botrytis (Ascomycota), encoding phytotoxic proteins homologous to a necrosis and ethylene-inducing protein from Fusarium oxysporum. Fragments of two paralogous genes (designated NEP1 and NEP2) were amplified from all known Botrytis species and sequenced. NEP1 sequences of two Botrytis species contain premature stop codons, indicating that they may be non-functional. Both paralogs of all species encode proteins with a remarkably similar predicted secondary structure, however, they contain different types of post-translational modification motifs, which are conserved across the genus. While both NEP genes are, overall, under purifying selection, we identified a number of amino acids under positive selection based on inference using maximum likelihood models. Positively selected amino acids in NEP1 were not under selection in corresponding positions in NEP2. The biological significance of positively selected residues and the role of NEP proteins in pathogenesis remain to be resolved.
Introgressive hybridization between bighead carp and silver carp in the Mississippi and Illinois rivers. Asian carps are classified as either bighead carp Hypophthalmichthys nobilis or silver carp H. molitrix by multiple presumptively diagnostic morphological characteristics; however, hybrids pose a dilemma. Fish sharing the morphological characteristics of both species were observed in an Illinois River backwater (Calhoun County, Illinois) approximately 5 mi (8 km) upriver from the confluence with the Mississippi River as well as in two locations in Pool 26 of the Mississippi River (Madison County, Illinois). Biopsied tissues from individuals exhibiting mixed morphological features were analyzed at four diagnostic allozyme loci (ADH-1*, sMDH-A*, CK-A*, and sSOD-1*) via starch gel electrophoresis. This comparison revealed a high percentage of hybridization (22.5%) from an indiscriminate sample of 120 fish. Moreover, an unexpected percentage (12.5%) of individuals identified in the wild as either parental bighead carp or silver carp by gill raker morphology were genetically identified as hybrids. Finally, two levels of hybridization were detected, first-generation hybrids (F1) and post-F1 hybrids, revealing the onset of extensive introgression and the potential for a hybrid swarm. Variation in the amplified COII domain of mitochondrial DNA indicated a strong directional bias of hybrids (88%) containing silver carp maternal lineages. Morphologically, F1 hybrids were often identifiable (88%) by the presence of twisted gill rakers, but post-F1 hybrids were difficult to identify with any appreciable certainty. This result creates concern where taxonomic assignment is critical for management or monitoring, warranting a more extensive and intensive examination of this phenomenon in North American waters. Finally, prior observations in aquaculture have shown reduced jumping behavior, fitness, and condition of fish resulting from post-F1 matings between these species. This is the first confirmed presence of wild post-F1 individuals of Asian carps in the United States and, although further monitoring is needed, a hybrid swarm may ultimately decrease invasion success as introgression continues.
Analysis of the genome sequence of the flowering plant Arabidopsis thaliana. The flowering plant Arabidopsis thaliana is an important model system for identifying genes end determining their functions. Here we report the analysis of the genomic sequence of Arabidopsis. The sequenced regions cover 115.4 megabases of the 125-megabase genome and extend into centromeric regions. The evolution of Arabidopsis involved a whole-genome duplication, followed by subsequent gene loss and extensive local gene duplications, giving rise to a dynamic genome enriched by lateral gene transfer from a cyanobacterial-like ancestor of the plastid. The genome contains 25,498 genes encoding proteins from 11,000 families, similar to the functional diversity of Drosophila and Caenorhabditis elegans - the other sequenced multicellular eukaryotes. Arabidopsis has many families of new proteins but also lacks several common protein families, indicating that the sets of common proteins have undergone differential expansion and contraction in the three multicellular eukaryotes. This is the first complete genome sequence of a plant and provides the foundations for more comprehensive comparison of conserved processes in all eukaryotes, identifying a wide range of plant-specific gene functions and establishing rapid systematic ways to identify genes for crop improvement.
In vivo cytogenetic and oxidative stress-inducing effects of cypermethrin in freshwater fish, Channa punctata Bloch. Synthetic pyrethroids are considered to be safe over other insecticides. Many of the newest pyrethroids lack ecotoxicity data. However, animal data indicate that their use may pose risk to environmental biota. The cytogenetic effects of cypermethrin, an α-class type II pyrethroid were evaluated using robust genotoxicity assay of chromosomal aberration (CA) and micronucleus (MN) tests in highly mitotic kidney cells and in erythrocytes of a freshwater fish, Channa punctata Bloch. In order to understand biochemical mechanism of genotoxic effects, oxidative stress parameters were also studied in fish erythrocytes. Fish exposed to cypermethrin (0.4, 0.8 and 1.2. γg/l for 48 and 72 h) showed increased frequencies of CA and MN in a concentration-dependent manner. Fish exposed to positive genotoxin, ethyl methane sulfonate (EMS) also showed significant increase in frequencies of CA and MN. The genotoxic effects were invariably accompanied and correlated with increased oxidative stress and disturbance of antioxidant enzymes.
In Vitro Enzymatic Activities of Bacteriochlorophyll a Synthase Derived from the Green Sulfur Photosynthetic Bacterium Chlorobaculum tepidum. The activity of an enzyme encoded by the CT1610 gene in the green sulfur photosynthetic bacterium Chlorobaculum tepidum, which was annotated as bacteriochlorophyll (BChl) a synthase, BchG (denoted as tepBchG), was examined in vitro using the lysates of Escherichia coli containing the heterologously expressed enzyme. BChl a possessing a geranylgeranyl group at the 17-propionate residue (BChl aGG) was produced from bacteriochlorophyllide (BChlide) a and geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate in the presence of tepBchG. Surprisingly, tepBchG catalyzed the formation of BChl a bearing a farnesyl group (BChl aF) as in the enzymatic production of BChl aGG, indicating loose recognition of isoprenoid pyrophosphates in tepBchG. In contrast to such loose recognition of isoprenoid substrates, BChlide c and chlorophyllide a gave no esterifying product upon being incubated with geranylgeranyl or farnesyl pyrophosphate in the presence of tepBchG. These results confirm that tepBchG undoubtedly acts as the BChl a synthase in Cba. tepidum. The enzymatic activity of tepBchG was higher than that of BchG of Rhodobacter sphaeroides at 45 °C, although the former activity was lower than the latter below 35 °C.
Sialic acid-specific lectins: Occurrence, specificity and function. Sialic acids consist of a family of acidic nine-carbon sugars that are typically located at the terminal positions of a variety of glycoconjugates. Naturally occurring sialic acids show an immense diversity of structure, and this reflects their involvement in a variety of biologically important processes. One such process involves the direct participation of sialic acids in recognition events through specific interactions with lectins, a family of proteins that recognise and bind sugars. This review will present a detailed overview of our current knowledge regarding the occurrence, specificity and function of sialic acid-specific lectins, particularly those that occur in viruses, bacteria and non-vertebrate eukaryotes.
Direct detection of Coccidioides from Arizona soils using CocciENV, a highly sensitive and specific real-time PCR assay. Coccidioides immitis and Coccidioides posadasii are soil fungi endemic to desert regions of the southwestern United States, and the causative agents of valley fever, or coccidioidomycosis. Studies have shown that the distribution of Coccidioides in soils is sporadic and cannot be explained by soil characteristics alone, suggesting that biotic and other abiotic factors should be examined. However, tools to reliably and robustly screen the large number of soils needed to investigate these potential associations have not been available. Thus, we developed a real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay for testing environmental samples by modifying CocciDx, an assay validated for testing clinical specimens to facilitate coccidioidomycosis diagnosis. For this study, we collected soil samples from previously established locations of C. posadasii in Arizona and new locations in fall 2013 and spring 2014, and screened the extracted DNA with the new assay known as CocciEnv. To verify the presence of Coccidioides in soil using an alternate method, we employed next generation amplicon sequencing targeting the ITS2 region. Results show our modified assay, CocciEnv, is a rapid and robust method for detecting Coccidioides DNA in complex environmental samples. The ability to test a large number of soils for the presence of Coccidioides is a much-needed tool in the understanding of the ecology of the organism and epidemiology of the disease and will greatly improve our understanding of this human pathogen.
Comparison of the mitochondrial genome of Nicotiana tabacum with its progenitor species. Mitochondrial DNAs from Nicotiana tabacum, an amphiploid, and its putative progenitor species, N. sylvestris and N. tomentosiformis were compared in structure and organization. By using DNA transfer techniques and cloned fragments of known genes from maize and N. sylvestris as labeled probes, the positions of homologous sequences in restriction digests of the Nicotiana species were analyzed. Results indicate that the mitochondrial DNA of N. tabacum was inherited from N. sylvestris. Conservation in organization and sequence homology between mtDNAs of N. tabacum and the maternal progenitor, N. sylvestris, provide evidence that the mitochondrial genome in these species is evolutionarily stable. Approximately one-third of the probed restriction fragments of N. tomentosiformis mtDNA showed conservation of position with the other two species. Pattern variations indicate that extensive rearrangement of mtDNA has occurred in the evolution of these Nicotiana species.
Formalized classification of ephemeral wetland vegetation (Isoëto-Nanojuncetea class) in Poland (Central Europe). Formalized classification of the class Isoëto-Nanojuncetea has not been performed in Poland. We used 69,562 relevés stored in Polish Vegetation Database. Based on the literature and expert knowledge we selected 63 diagnostic species for the Isoëto-Nanojuncetea class. Unequivocal classification was applied in this work according to Cocktail method. A set of formal definitions was established using a combination of logical operators of total cover of species in case of high-rank syntaxa while sociological species groups and cover of particular species were used for logical formulas describing class, alliances and associations. An Expert System was prepared and applied to classify the whole data set of PVD and 1,340 relevés were organized at the class level. We stratifies the data and finally we used data set of 903 relevés to prepare synoptic tables, distribution maps and descriptions of the syntaxa. Twelve associations and two plant communities were identified. Vegetation of the Isoëto-Nanojuncetea class occur in Poland's central and southern part, with scattered stands in northern region. We described two new plant communities within Eleocharition and Radiolion alliance. The first formal classification of the Isoëto-Nanojuncetea class revealed a high diversity of ephemeral vegetation wetland found in Poland in the eastern boundary of their geographical distribution in Europe.
Genomics of an extreme psychrophile, Psychromonas ingrahamii. Background: The genome sequence of the sea-ice bacterium Psychromonas ingrahamii 37, which grows exponentially at -12C, may reveal features that help to explain how this extreme psychrophile is able to grow at such low temperatures. Determination of the whole genome sequence allows comparison with genes of other psychrophiles and mesophiles. Results: Correspondence analysis of the composition of all P. ingrahamii proteins showed that (1) there are 6 classes of proteins, at least one more than other bacteria, (2) integral inner membrane proteins are not sharply separated from bulk proteins suggesting that, overall, they may have a lower hydrophobic character, and (3) there is strong opposition between asparagine and the oxygen-sensitive amino acids methionine, arginine, cysteine and histidine and (4) one of the previously unseen clusters of proteins has a high proportion of "orphan" hypothetical proteins, raising the possibility these are cold-specific proteins. Based on annotation of proteins by sequence similarity, (1) P. ingrahamii has a large number (61) of regulators of cyclic GDP, suggesting that this bacterium produces an extracellular polysaccharide that may help sequester water or lower the freezing point in the vicinity of the cell. (2) P. ingrahamii has genes for production of the osmolyte, betaine choline, which may balance the osmotic pressure as sea ice freezes. (3) P. ingrahamii has a large number (11) of three-subunit TRAP systems that may play an important role in the transport of nutrients into the cell at low temperatures. (4) Chaperones and stress proteins may play a critical role in transforming nascent polypeptides into 3-dimensional configurations that permit low temperature growth. (5) Metabolic properties of P. ingrahamii were deduced. Finally, a few small sets of proteins of unknown function which may play a role in psychrophily have been singled out as worthy of future study. Conclusion: The results of this genomic analysis provide a springboard for further investigations into mechanisms of psychrophily. Focus on the role of asparagine excess in proteins, targeted phenotypic characterizations and gene expression investigations are needed to ascertain if and how the organism regulates various proteins in response to growth at lower temperatures.
Study of RecA-independent homologous recombination and a chromosomal rearrangement in the Escherichia coli strain carrying an extended heterozygous tandem duplication. A heterozygous tandem duplication. in the Escherichia coli deo operon region deoA deoB::Tn5/ deoC deoD thr::Tn9 with the total length approximately 150 kb, which was obtained in the conjugational mating in the HfrH strain, was examined. By means of digestion with the NotI enzyme, pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, and the conjugational transfer of the duplication in the F - strain, the chromosomal rearrangement, which occurred in the duplication region upon its stabilization in the bacterial genome, was studied. In a more stable strain, two new NotI sites were shown to appear in the chromosomal region located close to the duplication, which might have resulted from the transposition of the IS50 sequence from Tn5. The data were also obtained indicating the possibility of secondary transposition of the chromosomal segment between the two new NotI sites (approximately 30 kb) in the region located near the duplication. With the use of rec+ and recA strains, two types of haploid and diploid segregants generated by the duplication were studied: DeoD+ (the DeoD+ allele is not expressed in the original duplication due to the polar effect of the deoB::Tn5 insertion) and DeoC DeoD. The segregation of DeoD+ clones was shown to be RecA-dependent, whereas the DeoC DeoD segregants selected on the medium that contained thymine at a low concentration (i.e., under conditions of thymine starvation) appeared at a rather high frequency. However, the relative frequency of haploid clones, which have lost the duplication, strongly decreased in the recA genome among segregants of both types.
Diversity of olfactory responses and skills in astyanax mexicanus cavefish populations inhabiting different caves. Animals in many phyla are adapted to and thrive in the constant darkness of subterranean environments. To do so, cave animals have presumably evolved mechano-and chemosensory compensations to the loss of vision, as is the case for the blind characiform cavefish, Astyanax mexicanus. Here, we systematically assessed the olfactory capacities of cavefish and surface fish of this species in the lab as well as in the wild, in five different caves in northeastern Mexico, using an olfactory setup specially developed to test and record olfactory responses during fieldwork. Overall cavefish showed lower (i.e., better) olfactory detection thresholds than surface fish. However, wild adult cavefish from the Pachón, Sabinos, Tinaja, Chica and Subterráneo caves showed highly variable responses to the three different odorant molecules they were exposed to. Pachón and Subterráneo cavefish showed the highest olfactory capacities, and Chica cavefish showed no response to the odors presented. We discuss these data with regard to the environmental conditions in which these different cavefish populations live. Our experiments in natural settings document the diversity of cave environments inhabited by a single species of cavefish, A. mexicanus, and highlight the complexity of the plastic and genetic mechanisms that underlie cave adaptation.
Plants transformed with a tobacco mosaic virus nonstructural gene sequence are resistant to the virus. Nicotiana tabacum cv. Xanthi nn plants were transformed with nucleotides 3472-4916 of tobacco mosaic virus (TMV) strain U1. This sequence contains all but the three 3′ terminal nucleotides of the TMV 54-kDa gene, which encodes a putative component of the replicase complex. These plants were resistant to infection when challenged with either TMV U1 virions or TMV U1 RNA at concentrations of up to 500 μg/ml or 300 μg/ml, respectively, the highest concentrations tested. Resistance was also exhibited when plants were inoculated at 100 μg/ml with the closely related TMV mutant YSI/1 but was not shown in plants challenged at the same concentrations with the more distantly related TMV strains U2 or L or cucumber mosaic virus. Although the copy number of the 54-kDa gene sequence varied in individual transformants from 1 to ≈5, the level of resistance in plants was not dependent on the number of copies of the 54-kDa gene sequence integrated. The transformed plants accumulated a 54-kDa gene sequence-specific RNA transcript of the expected size, but no protein product was detected.
Evaluation of the Marine Bacterial Population in the Great Bitter Lake, Egypt, as a Source of Antimicrobial Secondary Metabolites. The ecological uniqueness of the Great Bitter Lake ecosystem makes its bacterial population interesting for investigation. Here, we present the first trial to evaluate the biosynthetic capacity of the bacterial population at the lake as a source of novel antimicrobials. We collected different samples from various locations throughout the lake including the oxic sediment, anoxic sediment, shore water, and off-shore water. We modified a molecular approach to compare and choose the samples with the highest bacterial biosynthetic capacity by quantifying the polyketide synthase gene clusters in their total community DNA. Furthermore, we screened the bacterial isolates recovered from these samples and their metabolic extracts for antimicrobial activity. We tried to tentatively investigate the identity of the active metabolites by PCR screening and LC–MS. The bacterial population in the oxic sediment had the highest biosynthetic capacity compared to other sample types. Four active Bacillus isolates were identified. The isolated Bacillus species were expected to produce numerous probable bioactive metabolites encoded by biosynthetic gene clusters related to the polyketide synthases (either individual or hybrid with non-ribosomal peptide synthetase), such as Bacillomycin D, Iturin A, Bacilosarcin B, Bacillcoumacin G and Macrolactin (N and G). These results suggest that the underexplored bacterial community of the Great Bitter Lake has a prospective biosynthetic capacity and can be a promising source for novel antibiotics.
Light-dependent phosphorylation of the carboxy tail of mouse melanopsin. Melanopsin-based phototransduction is involved in non-image forming light responses including circadian entrainment, pupil constriction, suppression of pineal melatonin synthesis, and direct photic regulation of sleep in vertebrates. Given that the functions of melanopsin involve the measurement and summation of total environmental luminance, there would appear to be no need for the rapid deactivation typical of other G-protein coupled receptors. In this study, however, we demonstrate that heterologously expressed mouse melanopsin is phosphorylated in a light-dependent manner, and that this phosphorylation is involved in regulating the rate of G-protein activation and the lifetime of melanopsin's active state. Furthermore, we provide evidence for lightdependent phosphorylation of melanopsin in the mouse retina using an in situ proximity ligation assay. Finally, we demonstrate that melanopsin preferentially interacts with the GRK2/3 family of G-protein coupled receptor kinases through co-immunoprecipitation assays. Based on the complement of G-protein receptor kinases present in the melanopsin-expressing retinal ganglion cells, GRK2 emerges as the best candidate for melanopsin's cognate GRK.
Modeling and Parameter Identification for a Flexible Rotor With Impacts. The accuracy of a multibody model to predict the behavior of a real physical system depends heavily on the correct choice of model parameters. Identifying unknown system parameters that cannot be computed or measured directly is usually time-consuming and costly. If measurement data is available for the physical system, the parameters in the corresponding mathematical model can be determined by minimizing the error between the model response and the measurement data using optimization methods. While there is a wide range of optimization methods available, genetic optimization is a more generic approach for finding optimal solutions to complex engineering problems. So far, however, there is no general approach on how to use genetic optimization to determine unknown system parameters automatically—which is, however, of great importance when dealing with real flexible multibody systems. In this paper, we present a methodology to automatically determine several unknown system parameters of a complex flexible multibody system using genetic optimization. The proposed methodology is demonstrated using a small-scale test problem and a real flexible rotor excited with impacts. Experiments were performed on the physical rotor to obtain measurement data which is used to identify bearing and support stiffness and damping parameters as well as the impact force.
Monte Carlo strategies for selecting parameter values in simulation experiments. Simulation experiments are used widely throughout evolutionary biology and bioinformatics to comparemodels, promote methods, and test hypotheses. The biggest practical constraint on simulation experiments is the computational demand, particularly as the number of parameters increases. Given the extraordinary success of Monte Carlo methods for conducting inference in phylogenetics, and indeed throughout the sciences, we investigate ways in which Monte Carlo framework can be used to carry out simulation experiments more efficiently. The key idea is to sample parameter values for the experiments, rather than iterate through them exhaustively. Exhaustive analyses become completely infeasible when the number of parameters gets too large, whereas sampled approaches can fare better in higher dimensions. We illustrate the framework with applications to phylogenetics and genetic archaeology.
Allelic variation of gliadin-encoding genes in a collection of tetraploid wheat genotypes. Wheat is one of the main crops bred worldwide. Durum wheat, specifically, is a key element of the Mediterranean diet, representing an élite crop grown in Italy. Durum wheat nutritional and technological values are largely due to the grain protein content (GPC), a complex genetic trait strongly affected by environmental factors and management practices. In the last decades, several breeding programs have been focused on improving GPC by both traditional and innovative approaches. Among seed storage proteins, prolamins, including both gliadins and glutenins, represent the major component. These two classes of proteins are indeed responsible of gluten formation and confer the extensibility and elasticity to the dough. Besides being of crucial importance for both technological properties and rheological characteristics, prolamins, and especially gliadins, have been found to be major triggers for human health, as involved in a number of wheat consumption-related conditions, such as the celiac disease, non-celiac gluten sensitivity, defined as the onset of a variety of manifestations related to wheat, rye and barley ingestion, and wheat allergies, both due to wheat ingestion or inhalation (of flour or pollen). The identification of loci responsible for the gliadin expression, and particularly of polymorphism in the aforementioned genes, which could result in a lower immunogenic/toxic potential, could be of great importance in breeding programs. For this purpose, we screened a collection of tetraploid wheat genotypes for allelic variants of annotated gliadin genes in the durum wheat genome, in order to identify genetic resources available to breeders to improve wheat nutritional and technological properties. Phylogenetic analysis among different species of Triticum genus and an in silico expression data analysis may also be useful in the exploitation of the complex scenario of gliadin–glutenin interaction and gluten role in the adverse reactions due to wheat consumption.
'System reliability optimization: A fuzzy multi-objective genetic algorithm approach. System reliability optimization is often faced with imprecise and conflicting goals such as reducing the cost of the system and improving the reliability of the system. The decision making process becomes fuzzy and multi-objective. In this paper, we formulate the problem as a fuzzy multi-objective nonlinear program. A fuzzy multi-objective genetic algorithm approach (FMGA) is proposed for solving the multi-objective decision problem in order to handle the fuzzy goals and constraints. The approach is able flexible and adaptable, allowing for intermediate solutions, leading to high quality solutions. Thus, the approach incorporates the preferences of the decision maker concerning the cost and reliability goals through the use of fuzzy numbers. The utility of the approach is demonstrated on benchmark problems in the literature. Computational results show that the FMGA approach is promising.
Mechanisms of selenium hyperaccumulation in plants: A survey of molecular, biochemical and ecological cues. Background: Selenium (Se) is a micronutrient required for many life forms, but toxic at higher concentration. Plants do not have a Se requirement, but can benefit from Se via enhanced antioxidant activity. Some plant species can accumulate Se to concentrations above 0.1% of dry weight and seem to possess mechanisms that distinguish Se from its analog sulfur (S). Research on these so-called Se hyperaccumulators aims to identify key genes for this remarkable trait and to understand ecological implications. Scope of review: This review gives a broad overview of the current knowledge about Se uptake and metabolism in plants, with a special emphasis on hypothesized mechanisms of Se hyperaccumulation. The role of Se in plant defense responses and the associated ecological implications are discussed. Major conclusions: Hyperaccumulators have enhanced expression of S transport and assimilation genes, and may possess transporters with higher specificity for selenate over sulfate. Genes involved in antioxidant reactions and biotic stress resistance are also upregulated. Key regulators in these processes appear to be the growth regulators jasmonic acid, salicylic acid and ethylene. Hyperaccumulation may have evolved owing to associated ecological benefits, particularly protection against pathogens and herbivores, and as a form of elemental allelopathy. General significance: Understanding plant Se uptake and metabolism in hyperaccumulators has broad relevance for the environment, agriculture and human and animal nutrition and may help generate crops with selenate-specific uptake and high capacity to convert selenate to less toxic, anticarcinogenic, organic Se compounds.
Using genetic algorithms to optimise current and future health planning - the example of ambulance locations. Background: Ambulance response time is a crucial factor in patient survival. The number of emergency cases (EMS cases) requiring an ambulance is increasing due to changes in population demographics. This is decreasing ambulance response times to the emergency scene. This paper predicts EMS cases for 5-year intervals from 2020, to 2050 by correlating current EMS cases with demographic factors at the level of the census area and predicted population changes. It then applies a modified grouping genetic algorithm to compare current and future optimal locations and numbers of ambulances. Sets of potential locations were evaluated in terms of the (current and predicted) EMS case distances to those locations.Results: Future EMS demands were predicted to increase by 2030 using the model (R2 = 0.71). The optimal locations of ambulances based on future EMS cases were compared with current locations and with optimal locations modelled on current EMS case data. Optimising the location of ambulance stations locations reduced the average response times by 57 seconds. Current and predicted future EMS demand at modelled locations were calculated and compared.Conclusions: The reallocation of ambulances to optimal locations improved response times and could contribute to higher survival rates from life-threatening medical events. Modelling EMS case 'demand' over census areas allows the data to be correlated to population characteristics and optimal 'supply' locations to be identified. Comparing current and future optimal scenarios allows more nuanced planning decisions to be made. This is a generic methodology that could be used to provide evidence in support of public health planning and decision making.
Clostridium difficile clade 3 (RT023) have a modified cell surface and contain a large transposable island with novel cargo. The major global pathogen Clostridium difficile (recently renamed Clostridioides difficile) has large genetic diversity including multiple mobile genetic elements. In this study, whole genome sequencing of 86 strains from the poorly characterised clade 3, predominantly PCR ribotype (RT)023, of C. difficile revealed distinctive surface architecture characteristics and a large mobile genetic island. These strains have a unique sortase substrate phenotype compared with well-characterised strains of C. difficile, and loss of the phage protection protein CwpV. A large genetic insertion (023_CTnT) comprised of three smaller elements (023_CTn1-3) is present in 80/86 strains analysed in this study, with genes common among other bacterial strains in the gut microbiome. Novel cargo regions of 023_CTnT include genes encoding a sortase, putative sortase substrates, lantibiotic ABC transporters and a putative siderophore biosynthetic cluster. We demonstrate the excision of 023_CTnT and sub-elements 023_CTn2 and 023_CTn3 from the genome of RT023 reference strain CD305 and the transfer of 023_CTn3 to a non-toxigenic C. difficile strain, which may have implications for the use of non-toxigenic C. difficile strains as live attenuated vaccines. Finally, we show that the genes within the island are expressed in a regulated manner in C. difficile RT023 strains conferring a distinct “niche adaptation”.
A 21st century reproductive bioethocs. Since its beginnings Bioethical analyses and debates have been mostly aimed at discussing the permissibility of new practices such as New Reproductive Technologies (NRTs). NRTs are no longer "new": They are part of human ordinary life and contribute to human flourishing, allowing people to build families that could have not been built otherwise. Bioethics should take this fact into account and modify its agenda accordingly. NRTs should be regarded not as a matter of "Frontiers Bioethics"but rather of "Everyday Bioethics"even when genetic interventions aimed at "choosing"the identities of future people are at stake. A 21st Century Reproductive Bioethics should be focused on how to improve the right of every human being to access NRTs and not on a general discussion about their permissibility.
Sequences of initiator and elongator methionine tRNAs in bean mitochondria - Localization of the corresponding genes on maize and wheat mitochondrial genomes. Two bean mitochondria methionine transfer RNAs, purified by RPC-5 chromatography and two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, have been sequenced using in vitro post-labeling techniques. One of these tRNAsMet has been identified by formylation using an E. coli enzyme as the mitochondrial tRNAFMet. It displays strong structural homologies with prokaryotic and chloroplast tRNAFMet sequences (70.1-83.1%) and with putative initiator tRNAmMet genes described for wheat, maize and Oenothera mitochondrial genomes (88.3-89.6%). The other tRNAMet, which is the mitochondrial elongator tRNAFMet, shows a high degree of sequence homology (93.3-96%& with chloroplast tRNAmMet, but a weak homology (40.7%) with a sequenced maize mitochondrial putative elongator tRNAmMet gene. Bean mitochondrial tRNAFMet and tRNAmMet were hybridized to Southern blots of the mitochondrial genomes of wheat and maize, whose maps have been recently published (15, 22), in order to locate the position of their genes.
Evaluating Microsatellite Markers for Parentage-Based Tagging of Hatchery Burbot. Concerned stakeholders in various nations are investigating stock enhancement with hatchery supplementation as one of several strategies to restore imperiled burbot (Lota lota L.) populations. In other intensively studied species, the use of genetic markers for parentage-based tagging (PBT) has become an important tool for evaluating the ecology of hatchery-wild fish interactions. Our objective was to determine if microsatellites previously developed for studies of burbot phylogeography could be multiplexed for effective PBT. A total of 14 microsatellite loci were multiplexed in four panels and tested for PBT efficacy in a hatchery population of burbot. An exclusion-based test involving 123 anonymous offspring and 51 known parent-pairs resulted in 97% of the progeny assigning to the correct parents. Due to modest genetic diversity in the broodstock population, a high false-assignment rate (19%) was observed when parental cross information was excluded from parentage analyses. While the existing set of burbot microsatellites can be multiplexed into effective panels for PBT, we recommend the development of additional microsatellite or single nucleotide polymorphism markers to improve exclusionary power.
G-banding of the wood mouse Apodemus sylvaticus and the striped grass mouse Lemniscomys barbarus (Rodentia, Muridae) from Tunisia. In Tunisia the Muridae family is represented by 18 species and in the present study we focus on two of them: the wood mouse Apodemus sylvaticus and the striped grass mouse Lemniscomys barbarus. These two species are found in the North of the country in forests (for A. sylvaticus) and cultivated lands (for L. barbarus) where humid conditions and food supply are suitable for their development. The G-banding technique applied for the first time in Tunisia on these two species showed that the main difference between our results and the previous studies focuses on the sex chromosomes that have clearer G-bands. Although the polymorphism of sex chromosome is relatively rare, it has been reported before as in the case of the genus Microtus, the results we found could be confirmed through DNA analysis.
Proteomic and bioinformatic analysis of the root-knot nematode meloidogyne hapla: The basis for plant parasitism. On the basis of the complete genome sequence of the root-knot nematode Melodogyne hapla, we have deduced and annotated the entire proteome of this plant-parasite to create a database of 14420 proteins. We have made this database, termed HapPep3, available from the Superfamily repository of model organism proteomes (). To experimentally confirm the HapPep3 assignments using proteomics, we applied a data-independent LC/MSE analysis to M. hapla protein extracts fractionated by SDS-PAGE. A total of 516 nonredundant proteins were identified with an average of 9 unique peptides detected per protein. Some proteins, including examples with complex gene organization, were defined by more than 20 unique peptide matches, thus, providing experimental confirmation of computational predictions of intron/exon structures. On the basis of comparisons of the broad physicochemical properties of the experimental and computational proteomes, we conclude that the identified proteins reflect a true and unbiased sampling of HapPep3. Conversely, HapPep3 appears to broadly cover the protein space able to be experimentally sampled. To estimate the false discovery rate, we queried human, plant, and bacterial databases for matches to the LC/MS E-derived peptides, revealing fewer than 1% of matches, most of which were to highly conserved proteins. To provide a functional comparison of the acquired and deduced proteomes, each was subjected to higher order annotation, including comparisons of Gene Ontology, protein domains, signaling, and localization predictions, further indicating concordance, although those proteins that did deviate seem to be highly significant. Approximately 20% of the experimentally sampled proteome was predicted to be secreted, and thus potentially play a role at the host-parasite interface. We examined reference pathways to determine the extent of proteome similarity of M. hapla to that of the free-living nematode, Caenorhabditis elegans, revealing significant similarities and differences. Collectively, the analyzed protein set provides an initial foundation to experimentally dissect the basis of plant parasitism by M. hapla.
Partial melting of subducted continental crust: Geochemical evidence from synexhumation granite in the Sulu orogen. The partial melting of crustal rocks is a fundamental mechanism for the emplacement of continental granites. However, difficulty can be encountered in building a direct petrogenetic link between a granite and its source region. Partial melting of deeply subducted continental crust is increasingly being recognized in collisional orogens, but it is unclear whether such a process can produce a considerable volume of granitic melts leading to pluton emplacement. A possible solution to these two problems is to find a direct source-product relationship in granite petrogenesis. Here, we present a combined study of zircon U-Pb ages, Lu-Hf and O isotopes, and whole-rock major and trace elements and Sr-Nd isotopes for a newly found granitic intrusion in the Sulu orogen, China. The results provide geochemical evidence for the partial melting of deeply subducted continental crust during collisional orogenesis. Secondary ion mass spectrometry (SIMS) and laser ablation–inductively coupled plasma–mass spectrometry (LA-ICP-MS) zircon U-Pb dating yielded Late Triassic ages of 216 ± 2 Ma to 218 ± 3 Ma, postdating Middle Triassic ages for the ultrahigh-pressure (UHP) metamorphism of country rocks, corresponding to synexhumation mag-matism during continental collision. Relict zircon cores have concordant Neoproterozoic and Middle Triassic U-Pb ages, respectively, consistent with protolith and metamorphic ages for the UHP meta-igneous rocks in the Dabie-Sulu orogenic belt. The granite zircons exhibit low d18O values of 1.10‰– 4.32‰, comparable to those of the UHP meta- igneous rocks. The granite is high-K calc-alkaline to shoshonitic and shows trace-element distribution patterns with enrichment in large ion lithophile elements and light rare earth elements but depletion in high field strength elements, consistent with arc-type igneous rocks. Granites have high (87Sr/86Sr)i ratios of 0.7478–0.9709 and negative eNd(t) values of -12.9 to -7.8, with two-stage Nd model ages of 1.93–2.28 Ga for whole rock. Zircon Lu-Hf isotope analyses also yield negative eHf(t) values of -17.8 to -5.9 with two-stage Hf model ages of 1.62– 2.37 Ga. These whole-rock and zircon geo-chemical characteristics are generally comparable with those of the UHP meta-igneous rocks, indicating a genetic link between them. In particular, the low d18O values and the zircon relicts of Neoproterozoic and Tri-assic U-Pb ages are characteristic features of the subducted continental crust of the South China block. Therefore, the granite was derived from decompressional melting of the subducted upper continental crust during exhumation. The granitic melts produced in this stage may serve as metasomatic agents for crust-mantle interaction in the continental subduction channel. This provides a direct candidate for the crustal component in the mantle source of postcollisional mafic igneous rocks.
Analysis of protein profiles of genetically modified potato tubers by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry. Traceability of genetically modified (GM) foods demands the development of appropriate reliable techniques in order to identify and quantify peptide or nucleic acid residues in GM plants and food products through the food chain. In this study the applicability of matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOFMS) was demonstrated for the characterization of proteins of transformed and untransformed potato (Solanum Tuberosum L.) tubers. In GM tubers the expression level of the G1-1 gene, which regulates transition from dormancy to sprouting tubers, was inhibited by antisense technology. The analysis of antisense transformed lines showed that several of them exhibited a significant delay in sprouting relative to the control lines, in accordance with a decrease in the transcript level. Preliminary attempts to compare the protein patterns obtained from transformed and control lines using traditional electrophoresis were not able to reveal differences in the low-kDa range. Instead, MALDI-TOFMS applied to total peptide extract without any purification was able to distinguish spectral patterns of transformed and untransformed lines. In particular, several characteristic peaks from m/z 4373 to 4932 were detected only in the mass spectra of GM tuber samples.
Cloning the Switch: Digital and Markov Representations. The lysis-lysogeny switch in E. coli due to infection from lambda phage has been extensively studied and explained by scientists of molecular biology. The bacterium either survives with the viral strand of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) or dies producing hundreds of viruses for propagation of infection. Many proteins transcribed after infection by \\lambda phage take part in determining the fate of the bacterium, but two proteins that play a key role in this regard are the cI and cro dimers, which are transcribed off the viral DNA. This paper presents a novel modeling mechanism for the lysis-lysogeny switch, by transferring the interactions of the main proteins, the lambda right operator and promoter regions and the ribonucleic acid (RNA) polymerase, to a finite state machine (FSM), to determine cell fate. The FSM, and thus derived is implemented in field-programmable gate array (FPGA), and simulations have been run in random conditions. A Markov model has been created for the same mechanism. Steady state analysis has been conducted for the transition matrix of the Markov model, and the results have been generated to show the steady state probability of lysis with various model values. In this paper, it is hoped to lay down guidelines to convert biological processes into computing machines.
Biased distributions and decay of long interspersed nuclear elements in the chicken genome. The genomes of birds are much smaller than mammalian genomes, and transposable elements (TEs) make up only 10% of the chicken genome, compared with the 45% of the human genome. To study the mechanisms that constrain the copy numbers of TEs, and as a consequence the genome size of birds, we analyzed the distributions of LINEs (CR1's) and SINEs (MIRs) on the chicken autosomes and Z chromosome. We show that (1) CR1 repeats are longest on the Z chromosome and their length is negatively correlated with the local GC content; (2) the decay of CR1 elements is highly biased, and the 5′ ends of the insertions are lost much faster than their 3′-ends; (3) the GC distribution of CR1 repeats shows a bimodal pattern with repeats enriched in both AT-rich and GC-rich regions of the genome, but the CR1 families show large differences in their GC distribution; and (4) the few MIRs in the chicken are most abundant in regions with intermediate GC content. Our results indicate that the primary mechanism that removes repeats from the chicken genome is ectopic exchange and that the low abundance of repeats in avian genomes is likely to be the consequence of their high recombination rates.
The complete nucleotide sequence of white Amur bream (Parabramis pekinensis) mitochondrial genome. White Amur bream, Parabramis pekinensis (Cypriniformes: Cyprinidae), a freshwater cyprinid fish, is an important economic fish in several countries, especially in China. The complete sequence of P. pekinensis mitochondrial genome has been determined. The genome is 16,622 bp in length, and consists of 13 protein-coding genes, 22 transfer RNA genes, 2 ribosomal RNA genes and the noncoding control region, with the genomic organization being identical to that of typical vertebrates. Three conserved sequence blocks (CSB1 to CSB3) were identified in the control region. The complete mitochondrial genome sequence is useful for phylogenetic analysis and studies of population genetics of P. pekinensis.
Quasielastic light scattering by biopolymers. Center-of-mass motion of DNA in the presence of a sinusoidal electric field. Quasielastic light scattering is now a well-established technique for rapid determination of diffusion coefficients from the spectral density of Rayleigh scattered light. Application of a constant electric field in the course of a quasielastic light scattering experiment, a technique termed electrophoretic light scattering (ELS), results in a series of peaks that are Doppler shifted by an amount proportional to the superimposed instantaneous velocity of the molecules. Electrophoretic mobilities, diffusion coefficients, and relative concentrations of each component in a polydispersed system can be determined from a single ELS experiment. A theory for polymer dynamics in the presence of an applied sinusoidal field has also been proposed. The present communication presents data in which the center-of-mass of DNA is studied in the presence of a low frequency sinusoidal field. It is shown that: (1) at very low frequencies the power spectrum is composed of several peaks Doppler shifted by an amount proportional to the driving frequency ω (i.e. fundamental and harmonic overtones); (2) the peak amplitude of the fundamental frequency shift is proportionall to 1/ω in accordance with the theory. The advantage of using a sinusoidal applied field instead of a pulsed square-wave is discussed.
Expression from the Escherichia coli dapA promoter is regulated by intracellular levels of diaminopimelic acid. Dihydropicolinate synthase (DHDPS; E.C. 4.2.1.52) catalyses the first committed step of lysine biosynthesis in plants and bacteria. Plant DHDPS enzymes, which are responsible solely for lysine biosynthesis, are strongly inhibited by lysine (I0.5=10μM), whereas the bacterial enzymes which are less responsive or insensitive to lysine inhibition have the additional function of meso-diaminopimelate biosynthesis which is required for cell wall formation. Previous studies have suggested that expression of the Escherichia coli dapA gene, encoding DHDPS, is unregulated. We show here that this is not the case and that expression of LacZ from the dapA promoter (P dapA) increases in response to diaminopimelic acid limitation in E. coli K-12.
Characterization of ovine monocyte activity when cultured with Haemonchus contortus larvae in vitro. Aims: The objective of this study was to identify and characterize cell populations within ovine peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) associated with Haemonchus contortus (Hc) larval morbidity and impairment in vitro. Methods and results: Monocytes and lymphocytes were separated from PBMC from parasite-resistant St. Croix (STC) sheep and parasite-susceptible Suffolk (SUF) sheep. Cells were cultured with Hc third stage larvae (L3) for 9\xa0h. Larval morbidity was assessed using ATP concentration. Activation status was determined through gene expression analysis and enzyme inhibition. Enzymes arginase-1 (Arg1) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) were inhibited using BEC (S-(2-boronoethyl)-I-cysteine) and 1400W (N-(3-(aminomethyl)benzyl)acetamidine), respectively. Larval ATP was lower when cultured with STC-derived monocytes (0.015\xa0μmol/L ATP) compared to SUF-derived monocytes (0.067\xa0μmol/L ATP) (P\xa0<.001), or lymphocytes from either breed (STC: 0.085\xa0μmol/L, SUF: 0.112\xa0μmol/L ATP) (P\xa0<.001). SUF-derived monocytes displayed higher expression of M1 genes, whereas STC-derived monocytes displayed M2 genes continuously. Inhibition of Arg1 decreased monocyte function in both breeds, whereas iNOS inhibition restored SUF-derived monocyte function. Conclusions: Together, these data indicate STC-derived monocytes favour M2 phenotype when exposed to L3, where SUF-derived monocyte function resembled M1 phenotype and described potential for improving Suffolk sheep through modulating inflammatory responses.
A genetic assay for the detection of aneuploidy in the germ-line cells of Drosophila melanogaster. A 2-generation assay is described for the detection of aneuploidy in the germ-line cells of Drosophila melanogaster. Larvae and adult females that carry marker mutations are exposed to test compounds, and the F2 generation is scored for exceptional phenotypes. As a consequence of nondisjunction and/or loss of the sex chromosomes, 5 exceptional phenotypes appear. These phenotypes are often indicative of specific types of nondisjunction. Based on the time course and the pattern of exception production of the treated parents, aneuploidy due to meiotic and mitotic defects can be separated. The genetic analysis of the exceptions reveals whether nondisjunction has occurred due to failure of the spindle fibres to disjoin chromosomes or attachment of the chromosomes. The described assay is an extension of the so-called Somatic Mutation and Recombination Test (SMART) and allows screening for different genetic endpoints: aneuploidy, recombinogenic and mutagenic activities in the same treatment. The effects of colchicine and EMS are described with respect to the induction of (i) aneuploidy in the germ line and (ii) somatic mutation and recombination in the eyes, wings and female germ-line cells. Colchicine induces aneuploidy in the germ-line cells while the frequency of mosaic spots does not increase after colchicine treatment. This result suggest that aneuploidy plays little (if any) role in the formation of mosaic spots. Colchicine induces nondisjunction in the mitotically rather than in the meiotically dividing germ-line cells. EMS, as expected, induces high frequency of somatic mutation and recombination but not aneuploidy in the female germ line.
Detection of filaria-specific IgG4 antibodies and filarial DNA, for the screening of blood spots for Brugia timori. The establishment of simple, sensitive and specific tools for the diagnosis of brugian lymphatic filariasis is a prerequisite for a successful intervention to control the disease. In the simple and rapid Brugia Rapid (BR) test, an immunochromatographic dipstick is used to detect IgG4 antibodies that are reactive with a recombinant Brugia malayi antigen. When sera from 109 individuals with Brugia microfilaraemias (12 with B. malayi and 97 with B. timori) were investigated using the BR test, all were found positive. In contrast, all of the 150 sera from individuals with Onchocerca volvulus or Mansonella infections investigated were found negative in BR tests. Some unwelcome cross-reactions were observed, however, with sera from individuals infected with Wuchereria bancrofti (three of 12 test-positive) and Dirofilaria (one of nine test-positive). In an attempt to facilitate sample collection and detect any cross-reactions, the BR dipstick was used to screen blood spots, that had been allowed to dry on filter paper, for B. timori microfilariae, before the dipstick-positive samples were tested with a PCR-based assay. Of the 66 individuals so tested, 37 (56%) were found positive by the BR test used on dry blood spots and eight (22%) by the filtration of fresh blood samples. Only nine of the 37 dipstick-positive samples were found PCR-positive. The combined use of BR tests and PCR-based assays, for testing blood spots in areas where brugian filariasis is endemic, appears to be a promising method not only for post-treatment monitoring but also for the certification activities planned within the framework of the Global Programme to Eliminate Lymphatic Filariasis.
The winners: species that have benefited from 30 years of conservation action. New Zealand is a world leader in saving species from the brink of extinction. We selected seven case studies to explore successful species conservation in New Zealand over the past 30 years to exemplify what makes a ‘conservation winner’. The taxa chosen were: Hebe armstrongii, Mercury Islands tusked wētā, Galaxias vulgaris, tuatara, saddleback, long-tailed bat and humpback whale. Three of the case studies (hebe, wētā, galaxiids) illustrate the lack of attention compared to birds, possibly limiting conservation achievements. Considerable attention has gone into the development of species-specific techniques, including captive breeding and translocation protocols, and genetic studies to define management units. All case studies demonstrated the need for continued conservation attention, as long-term success is not guaranteed. We believe by accentuating the positive outcomes of conservation, the wider community will realise that efforts to save endangered species have the potential to reverse the current extinction crisis facing the world.
Synergism between CACGTG (G‐box) and CACCTG cis‐elements is required for activation of the bean seed storage protein β‐phaseolin} gene. Expression of bean seed storage protein phaseolin is under strict developmental control. Four distinct nuclear proteins recognize in vitro the proximal, β‐phaseolin} promoter (−295/+45) which confers spatial and temporal regulation of the native gene. Functional significance of these protein‐binding sites was evaluated by substitution mutation of the motifs in the promoter, which was fused to GUS reporter gene, and subsequent transient gene expression assay using protoplasts from developing bean cotyledons. DNA‐binding protein CAN binds three CANNTG motifs, CACGTG (−248/−243), CACCTG (−163/−158), and CATATG (−100/−95). Substitution mutation of the CACGTG motif, which is commonly known as G‐box, reduced the −295 promoter activity by 75%, indicating that the G‐box is a major positive cis‐element. Mutation analyses also demonstrated that the CACCTG and CATATG motifs act as positive and negative cis‐elements, respectively. Substitution mutation of all three CANNTG motifs essentially eliminated the −295 promoter activity. A construct containing the G‐box and CACCTG motif resulted in a transcriptional level that is much greater than the sum of the transcriptional levels from the individual cis‐elements, demonstrating that the G‐box and CACCTG act synergistically. Substitution mutations of two AT‐rich sequences, to which a nuclear protein AG‐1 binds, showed that these sites function as major negative (−376/−367, −356/−347) or positive (−191/−182) cis‐elements, and that the effect of the two AG‐1 binding sites was counteractive in the −391 promoter. These results indicate that the three CANNTG motifs and two AG‐1‐binding sites play critical roles in transcription of the {β‐phaseolin} gene in cotyledons.
Development and screening of EMS mutants with altered seed oil content or fatty acid composition in Brassica napus. Brassica napus is an important oilseed crop in the world, and the mechanism of seed oil biosynthesis in B. napus remains unclear. In order to study the mechanism of oil biosynthesis and generate germplasms for breeding, an ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS) mutant population with ~100\xa0000 M2 lines was generated using Zhongshuang 11 as the parent line. The EMS-induced genome-wide mutations in M2−M4 plants were assessed. The average number of mutations including single nucleotide polymorphisms and insertion/deletion in M2−M4 was 21\xa0177, 28\xa0675 and 17\xa0915, respectively. The effects of the mutations on gene function were predicted in M2−M4 mutants, respectively. We screened the seeds from 98\xa0113 M2 lines, and 9415 seed oil content and fatty acid mutants were identified. We further confirmed 686 mutants with altered seed oil content and fatty acid in advanced generation (M4 seeds). Five representative M4 mutants with increased oleic acid were re-sequenced, and the potential causal variations in FAD2 and ROD1 genes were identified. This study generated and screened a large scale of B. napus EMS mutant population, and the identified mutants could provide useful genetic resources for the study of oil biosynthesis and genetic improvement of seed oil content and fatty acid composition of B. napus in the future.
Simultaneous identification of two MspI polymorphisms of the porcine myogenin gene in Hungarian breeds. Simultaneous analysis of two myogenin (MYOG) loci has been carried out using polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) tests in DNA isolated from blood samples collected from four different pig breeds (Hungarian Large White, Duroc, Mangalica and Hungarian Landrace). The following MYOGA frequency values have been obtained: Hungarian Large White 0.2416; Duroc 0.0900; Mangalica 0.6617; Hungarian Landrace 0.2361. The MYOG2 allele was found in Duroc and Mangalica breeds only. This test allows the analysis of two loci of the MYOG gene in parallel, which might be used in marker assisted selection programmes in the near future. Ongoing studies on the possible effects of the MYOG types on carcass and growth traits are outlined.
Shallow-water reef ophiuroids (Echinodermata: Ophiuroidea) of Réunion (Mascarene Islands), with biogeographic considerations. Despite their importance in marine biodiversity, invertebrates are far less studied than vertebrates. Given the current global biodiversity crisis and insufficient taxonomic resources, sustained efforts need to be undertaken to assess species diversity, especially in the highly threatened 'biodiversity hotspots'. Réunion is a young volcanic island lying in the Mascarene Islands (south-western Indian Ocean, SWIO), a marine biodiversity hotspot. A substantial sampling effort was conducted around Réunion Island to document shallow water reef-associated ophiuroid (brittle-stars) diversity, a class recognised as the most diverse among echinoderms. A total of 33 species were documented, increasing the known species richness of the island by 56%. Findings include 15 new records for Réunion, 11 for the Mascarene Islands and 8 for the Indian Ocean. The most diverse family was Ophiocomidae, a family of large, abundant and conspicuous tropical species. Even in this well studied family, a new species was revealed by this survey. Morphological variants together with DNA sequence variations within several species revealed cryptic species. We compared our results with the known fauna of other Mascarene Islands and discuss biogeographic implications for the region.
Characterisation of the Escherichia coli mfd promoter. The bacterial mfd gene encodes a transcription-repair coupling factor that mediates the preferential repair of DNA damage in the template strand of active transcriptional units. In this report, the transcription start site for the Escherichia coli mfd gene was determined in vivo and in vitro, and the DNA determinants for mfd transcription by deletion and site-directed mutagenesis were defined. A canonical σ70-dependent promoter, mfd P1, was responsible for the majority of mfd transcription, and a core region consisting of residues -42 to +5 was sufficient for full activity in rich and minimal media.
Characterization of a novel organic solute transporter homologue from Clonorchis sinensis. Clonorchis sinensis is a liver fluke that can dwell in the bile ducts of mammals. Bile acid transporters function to maintain the homeostasis of bile acids in C. sinensis, as they induce physiological changes or have harmful effects on C. sinensis survival. The organic solute transporter (OST) transports mainly bile acid and belongs to the SLC51 subfamily of solute carrier transporters. OST plays a critical role in the recirculation of bile acids in higher animals. In this study, we cloned full-length cDNA of the 480- amino acid OST from C. sinensis (CsOST). Genomic analysis revealed 11 exons and nine introns. The CsOST protein had a ‘Solute_trans_a’ domain with 67% homology to Schistosoma japonicum OST. For further analysis, the CsOST protein sequence was split into the ordered domain (CsOST-N) at the N-terminus and disordered domain (CsOST-C) at the C-terminus. The tertiary structure of each domain was built using a threading-based method and determined by manual comparison. In a phylogenetic tree, the CsOST-N domain belonged to the OSTα and CsOST-C to the OSTβ clade. These two domains were more highly conserved with the OST α- and β-subunits at the structure level than at sequence level. These findings suggested that CsOST comprised the OSTα- and β-subunits. CsOST was localized in the oral and ventral suckers and in the mesenchymal tissues abundant around the intestine, vitelline glands, uterus, and testes. This study provides fundamental data for the further understanding of homologues in other flukes.
PCR detection and 16S rRNA sequence-based phylogeny of a novel Propionibacterium acidipropionici applicable for enhanced fermentation of high moisture corn. Aims: The aims of this study were to develop a sensitive and more rapid detection of Propionibacterium acidipropionici DH42 in silage and rumen fluid samples, and to explore its 16S rRNA sequence-based phylogeny. Methods and Results: Nested polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was used with DH42-specific primers dhb1 and dhb2 for the secondary amplification of a 1267-bp fragment of 16S rRNA encoding gene. Using the established protocols for PCR amplification, as low as 102 and 103 CFU ml-1 of strain DH42 in silage extracts and rumen fluid, respectively, were detected. To determine phylogenetic relationships between DH42 and other representatives of Propionibacterineae, a 1529-bp fragment of its 16S rRNA was amplified by PCR and sequenced. The propionibacterium DH42 formed a cluster with Eubacterium combesii, P. acidipropionici and P. microaerophilus. Conclusions: 16S rRNA-based PCR detection technique was developed for DH42 in silage and rumen fluid samples. The 16S rRNA sequence confirmed the earlier identification of strain DH42 as P. acidipropionici. However, variable nucleotide positions were revealed. Significance and Impact of the Study: Variability of 16S rRNA sequence within the species P. acidipropionici, determined in this study, poses the need of re-sequencing for some species of the suborder Propionibacterineae for a more reliable classification.
Combination processes of diamond recovery from metasomatically altered kimberlite rocks. The article gives new experimental data on chemistry, phase composition, structure and physicochemical properties of surface of minerals composing metasomatically altered kimberlite rocks. The authors have determined formation conditions and basic genetic types of mineral micro- and nano-size phases on diamond surface in the form of aluminosilicate minerals, thin coats of clayey minerals, calcite and dolomite bound with carbonate cement, as well as their negative effect on recovery of diamonds by foam separation. The mechanisms and efficient methods of combined energy effects on the natural heterogeneous system of diamond and surface mineral phase are found to rupture hydrophilic mineral films on diamond surface, prevent their repeated formation and reduce diamond loss in processing of diamond-bearing kimberlites.
Studies on relationship between seed yield and yield components in Soybean (Glycine max L. Merrill). A study was conducted on 56 genotypes of soybean to determine correlation and per cent contribution of variation by each trait on grain yield through principal component analysis. Mean Values for traits studied showed that TGx1987-64F had the highest yield of 2.09 t/ha, followed by TGx 1987-37-37F. Correlation coefficient for seed yield was positive with days to flowering and maturity, plant height and number of pods per plant. The principal component analysis identified the traits days to maturity, plant height and number of pods per plan as mostly responsible for variation among the genotypes. Highly weighted variables under the first principal component which explained 39.83% of the total variation include days to maturity, plant height and number of pods per plant. The second principal component explained an additional 20.52% of the total variation. These two components explained 60.36% of the total variation in all the variables. Therefore, genetic enhancement of these traits will ultimately increase the grain yield.
Environmental stratification and performance of coffea canephora clones grown in the western amazon. Change in the performance of clones grown in different environments is an important question for Coffea canephora breeding. The aim of this study was to evaluate environmental stratification and the performance of C. canephora clones grown in the Western Amazon. For that purpose, the mean yield of three crop seasons was considered to evaluate the performance of 20 genotypes grown in 6 clonal competition trials in the environments of: E1: Ouro Preto do Oeste-RO, E2: Porto Velho-RO, E3: Ariquemes-RO, E4 and E5: Rio Branco-AC and E6: Alta Floresta do Oeste-RO. The trials were conducted with a plant spacing of 3 m × 1.5 m in a complete block experimental design, with three replications of eight plants per plot. Combined analysis indicated significance of the genotype × environment (G×E) interaction and favorable conditions to obtain gains from selection. Reduction in the dimensionality estimated from climate and soil characteristics indicated that the environments of Porto Velho-RO, Rio Branco-AC and Ariquemes-RO are more similar to each other than the environments of Ouro Preto do Oeste-RO and Alta Floresta-RO of greater natural soil fertility and higher altitude. The AMMI1 biplot shows that genotypes 16, 10, and 13 had the highest mean yields, together with greater stability. In the AMMI2 scatterplot (IPCA1×IPCA2), the environments E4 and E5 were clustered in the same sector. Clustering based on the complex fraction of the G×E interaction coincided with the AMMI2 scatterplot that clustered the E4 and E5 environments in a single mega-environment. Except for these environments, all the others clustered as locations of different biotic and abiotic stress conditions. This result shows the importance of maintaining evaluations in these environments, which represent the conditions of the coffee fields in the region.
Complex and reticulate origin of edible roses (Rosa, Rosaceae) in China. While roses are today among the most popular ornamental plants, the petals and fruits of some cultivars have flavored foods for millennia. The genetic origins of these edible cultivars remain poorly investigated. We collected the major varieties of edible roses available in China, assembled their plastome sequences, and phased the haplotypes for internal transcribed spacers (ITS1/ITS2) of the 18S-5.8S-26S nuclear ribosomal cistron. Our phylogenetic reconstruction using 88 plastid genomes, of primarily maternal origin, uncovered well-supported genetic relationships within Rosa, including all sections and all subgenera. We phased the ITS sequences to identify potential donor species ancestral to the development of known edible cultivars. The tri-parental Middle-Eastern origin of R. × damascena, the species most widely used in perfume products and food additives, was confirmed as a descendent of past hybridizations among R. moschata, R. gallica, and R. majalis/R. fedtschenkoana/R. davurica. In contrast, R. chinensis, R. rugosa, and R. gallica, in association with six other wild species, were the main donors for fifteen varieties of edible roses. The domesticated R. rugosa 'Plena' was shown to be a hybrid between R. rugosa and R. davurica, sharing a common origin with R. 'Fenghua'. Only R. 'Jinbian' and R. 'Crimson Glory' featured continuous flowering. All remaining cultivars of edible roses bloomed only once a year. Our study provides important resources for clarifying the origin of edible roses and suggests a future for breeding new cultivars with unique traits, such as continuous flowering.
Synergistic activity of fosfomycin-meropenem and fosfomycin-colistin against carbapenem resistant Klebsiella pneumoniae : An in vitro evidence. Aim: To evaluate the antibacterial activity of fosfomycin-meropenem and fosfomycin-colistin combinations against carbapenem-resistant Klebsiella pneumoniae (CR-Kp). Methods: A total of 50 CR-Kp isolates recovered from blood cultures were included in this study. All the CR-Kp isolates were screened for the presence of carbapenem resistant genes blaIMP, blaVIM, blaNDM, blaOXA-48 like, blaKPC, blaGES and blaSPM. Combination testing of fosfomycin-meropenem and fosfomycin-colistin were performed using time-kill assay. Results: Fosfomycin-meropenem combination showed synergy in 20% of the tested CR-Kp isolates.While, fosfomycin-colistin exhibited synergy against 16% of the isolates. A total of 68% (n = 34) of CR-Kp isolates were characterised as OXA-48-like producers and 22% (n = 11) as NDM producers. Synergistic activity of these combinations was observed against OXA-48, NDM and NDM + OXA-48 co-producers. Conclusion: Considerable synergistic antibacterial activity of fosfomycin-meropenem and fosfomycin-colistin was not observed against CR-Kp isolates. Therefore, these combinations may not be promising for infections associated with CR-Kp. Lay abstract: Carbapenem-resistant Klebsiella pneumoniae (CR-Kp) infections are difficult to treat and are associated with a high mortality rate. This study aimed to evaluate the synergistic activity of fosfomycin-meropenem and fosfomycin-colistin combinations against CR-Kp. Synergistic activity of these combinations was observed against OXA-48, NDM and NDM + OXA-48 co-producers. However, synergism was not found to be significant. Therefore, these combinations may not be promising for infections associated with CR-Kp.
Primary structure from amino acid and cDNA sequences of two Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase variants from Xenopus laevis. A mixture of two different amino acid sequences was discovered in Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase purified from the amphibian Xenopus laevis. No N-terminal post-translational modification was found. The high number of substitutions in the sequence suggested that protein heterogeneity was a product of gene duplication. This was confirmed by isolation of two different cDNA clones. Nucleotide sequence analysis allowed the primary structure of the two peptide chains to be unambiguously assigned. The observed changes (19 in 150 residues) are distributed along the peptide chain to give similar protein net charges although substitutions of the same polarity and/or charge were the exception rather than the rule. The degree of diversity between the two Xenopus variants is comparable to that between mammalian sequences and shows that the putative increase of the rate of mutation for Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase at later evolution stages (Y. M. Lee , 1985, Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 241, 577-589; G. J. Steffens , 1986, Biol. Chem. Hoppe-Seyler 367, 1017-1024) is observed in amphibians. This is the first time complete sequences for Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase variants from the same organism have been found to be products of divergent genes and not simply allelic mutations.
Isolation-by-environment as a driver of genetic differentiation among populations of the only broad-leaved evergreen shrub Ammopiptanthus mongolicus in Asian temperate deserts. Whether the effect of migration-selection-drift equilibrium on population structure is governed by spatial or environmental differences is usually elucidated by isolation-by-distance (IBD), isolation-by-environment (IBE), and isolation-by-resistance (IBR) tests. The population structure of Ammopiptanthus mongolicus, a broad-leaved evergreen psammophyte in eastern Central Asia, was previously thought to follow an isolation by distance pattern. However, recent studies have emphasized the effects of environmental factors on its growth and distribution, suggesting an important influence of local adaptation on the genetic structure of the species. Using inter-simple sequence repeat (ISSR) markers, we verified the previously inferred low intra-population variation and high inter-population differentiation. However, in contrast to previous studies, the results of partial Mantel tests and a maximum likelihood population effects mixed model (MLPE) suggested that local climate differences, rather than geographic distances or resistance distances, are the main factor affecting population differentiation. Further analysis with removal of multicollinear climatic variables and univariate MLPE found that summer and winter precipitation were crucial for shaping the current population genetic structure. Since local precipitation is related to the regeneration, colonization, and overwintering survival of A. mongolicus, its influence on demographic change may explain its effect on the population genetic structure. In addition, precipitation is related to terrain despite westward decreases, which explains the independence of genetic difference and geographic distance. The identified role of IBE suggests that collecting germplasm resources from genetically differentiated populations could be a more effective strategy to preserve the overall genetic diversity of the species than the establishment of corridors to enhance gene flow among populations.
Botryosphaeria species from Eucalyptus in Australia are pleoanamorphic, producing Dichomera synanamorphs in culture. Species within the genus Botryosphaeria include some of the most widespread and important pathogens of woody plants, and have been the focus of numerous taxonomic studies in recent years. It is currently accepted that anamorphs of Botryosphaeria belong to two distinct genera, Fusicoccum and Diplodia. Species within the genus Fusicoccum commonly produce aseptate, hyaline conidia. In the present study, fungi were isolated from foliage and wood of Eucalyptus in native forests and plantations in Australia. Although these fungi produced Dichomera anamorphs in culture, they clustered within the Fusicoccum clade of Botryosphaeria based on their ITS sequence data. Four species, Botryosphaeria dothidea, B. parva, B. ribis and B. australis produced Dichomera conidia in culture. The Dichomera synanamorphs are described for these four species of Botryosphaeria. In addition, falling within the Fusicoccum clade of Botryosphaeria, two species were found to be distinct from previously described Botryosphaeria spp. based on their ITS sequences, but synonymous with D. versiformis and D. eucalypti. These observations are currently unique to isolates from host trees within the genus Eucalyptus in Australia, and the pleoanamorphic nature of these species is discussed.
Networks of causal linkage between eigenmodes characterize behavioral dynamics of caenorhabditis elegans. Behavioral phenotyping of model organisms has played an important role in unravelling the complexities of animal behavior. Techniques for classifying behavior often rely on easily identified changes in posture and motion. However, such approaches are likely to miss complex behaviors that cannot be readily distinguished by eye (e.g., high-dimensional dynamics). To explore this issue, we focus on the model organism Caenorhabditis elegans, where behaviors have been extensively recorded and classified. Using a dynamical systems lens, we identify high-dimensional, non-linear causal relationships between four basic shapes that describe worm motion (eigenmodes, also called “eigenworms”). We find relationships between all pairs of eigenmodes, but the timescales of the interactions vary between pairs and across individuals. Using these varying timescales, we create “interaction profiles” to represent an individual’s behavioral dynamics. As desired, these profiles are able to distinguish well-known behavioral states: i.e., the profiles for foraging individuals are distinct from those of individuals exhibiting an escape response. More importantly, we find that interaction profiles can distinguish high dimensional behaviors among divergent mutant strains that were previously classified as phenotypically similar. Specifically, we find it is able to detect phenotypic behavioral differences not previously identified in strains related to dysfunction of hermaphrodite-specific neurons.
Deactivation of gibberellin by 2-oxidation during germination of photoblastic lettuce seeds. Gibberellin (GA) plays an important role in the induction of germination of photoblastic lettuce (Lactuca sativa L. cv. Grand Rapids) seeds. We have previously shown that gene expression of a GA 3-oxidase (Ls3h1) increased after a red light treatment, resulting in an increase in the endogenous content of GA1, bioactive GA. Since the metabolism of GAs is also important for determining the endogenous levels of bioactive GAs, cDNAs encoding GA 2-oxidases (LsGA2ox1 and LsGA2ox2, for L. sativa GA 2-oxidase), which catalyze the deactivation of GAs, were isolated from lettuce seeds to investigate the regulation of these genes by light. An expression analysis shows that the mRNA levels of both enzymes was not markedly altered under different light conditions during germination. However, the amount of LsGA2ox2 transcripts was decreased to approximately half the level by red light. This reduction might play a role in the increase in GA1 level by red light in the lettuce seeds.
A survey of pyridoxal 5\'-phosphate-dependent proteins in the gram-positive model bacterium Bacillus subtilis. The B6 vitamer pyridoxal 5\'-phosphate (PLP) is a co-factor for proteins and enzymes that are involved in diverse cellular processes. Therefore, PLP is essential for organisms from all kingdoms of life. Here we provide an overview about the PLP-dependent proteins from the Gram-positive soil bacterium Bacillus subtilis. Since B. subtilis serves as a model system in basic research and as a production host in industry, knowledge about the PLP-dependent proteins could facilitate engineering the bacteria for biotechnological applications. The survey revealed that the majority of the PLP-dependent proteins are involved in metabolic pathways like amino acid biosynthesis and degradation, biosynthesis of antibacterial compounds, utilization of nucleotides as well as in iron and carbon metabolism. Many PLP-dependent proteins participate in de novo synthesis of the co-factors biotin, folate, heme, and NAD+ as well as in cell wall metabolism, tRNA modification, regulation of gene expression, sporulation, and biofilm formation. A surprisingly large group of PLP-dependent proteins (29%) belong to the group of poorly characterized proteins. This review underpins the need to characterize the PLP-dependent proteins of unknown function to fully understand the "PLP-ome" of B. subtilis.
Movement of a hybrid zone between lineages of the Australian glass shrimp (Paratya australiensis). In 1993, a population of freshwater glass shrimp (Paratya australiensis) was translocated from Kilcoy Creek to Branch Creek in the Conondale Range, Queensland. Subsequent genetic analysis revealed that the translocated and resident shrimp belonged to different mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) lineages that were capable of hybridizing. Monitoring of the pools along Branch Creek up until 2002 suggested that the translocated lineage had an advantage in upstream pools and the resident lineage dominated downstream. Differential temperature tolerance and hybridization barriers such as hybrid inviability and mate selection were factors proposed to explain hybrid zone structure. The major objective of this study was to combine nuclear and mtDNA markers to identify the structure of the hybrid zone in 2013 and identify any changes that had occurred since 2002. Specifically, we used genetic data to test for evidence of hybrid zone movement and used the inbreeding coefficient (FIS) to investigate whether mating was random in the contact zone where hybridization barriers could be present. The results revealed that the hybrid zone center has shifted 510 m downstream since 2002. Increased rainfall in the region since 2010 could have facilitated this. Secondly, mating appears significantly nonrandom in the pools where both lineages occur, supporting the existence of partial hybridization barriers. This study reveals a complex and dynamic hybrid zone and exemplifies why multiple temporal studies are necessary to understand hybrid zone structure.
A CURLY LEAF homologue controls both vegetative and reproductive development of tomato plants. The Enhancer of Zeste Polycomb group proteins, which are encoded by a small gene family in Arabidopsis thaliana, participate to the control of plant development. In the tomato (Solanum lycopersicum), these proteins are encoded by three genes (SlEZ1,SlEZ2 and SlEZ3) that display specific expression profiles. Using a gene specific RNAi strategy, we demonstrate that repression of SlEZ2 correlates with a general reduction of H3K27me3 levels, indicating that SlEZ2 is part of an active PRC2 complex. Reduction of SlEZ2 gene expression impacts the vegetative development of tomato plants, consistent with SlEZ2 having retained at least some of the functions of the Arabidopsis CURLY LEAF (CLF) protein. Notwithstanding, we observed significant differences between transgenic SlEZ2 RNAi tomato plants and Arabidopsisclf mutants. First, we found that reduced SlEZ2 expression has dramatic effects on tomato fruit development and ripening, functions not described in Arabidopsis for the CLF protein. In addition, repression of SlEZ2 has no significant effect on the flowering time or the control of flower organ identity, in contrast to the Arabidopsisclf mutation. Taken together, our results are consistent with a diversification of the function of CLF orthologues in plants, and indicate that although partly conserved amongst plants, the function of EZ proteins need to be newly investigated for non-model plants because they might have been recruited to specific developmental processes.
IFN-γ increases efficiency of DNA vaccine in protecting ducks against infection. Aim: To detect the effects of DNA vaccines in combination with duck IFN-γ gene on the protection of ducks against duck hepatitis B virus (DHBV) infection. Methods: DuIFN-γ cDNA was cloned and expressed in COS-7 cells, and the antiviral activity of DuIFN-γ was detected and neutralized by specific antibodies. Ducks were vaccinated with DHBpreS/S DNA alone or co-immunized with plasmid expressing DuIFN-γ. DuIFN-γ mRNA in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from immunized ducks was detected by semi-quantitative competitive RT-PCR. Anti-DHBpreS was titrated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). DHBV DNA in sera and liver was detected by Southern blot hybridization, after ducks were challenged with high doses of DHBV. Results: DuIFN-γ expressed by COS-7 was able to protect duck fibroblasts against vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) infection in a dose-dependent fashion, and anti-DuIFN-γ antibodies neutralized the antiviral effects. DuIFN-γ in the supernatant also inhibited the release of DHBV DNA from LMH-D2 cells. When ducks were co-immunized with DNA vaccine expressing DHBpreS/S and DuIFN-γ gene as an adjuvant, the level of DuIFN-γ mRNA in PBMCs was higher than that in ducks vaccinated with DHBpreS/S DNA alone. However, the titer of anti-DHBpreS elicited by DHBpreS/S DNA alone was higher than that co-immunized with DuIFN-γ gene and DHBpreS/S DNA. After being challenged with DHBV at high doses, the load of DHBV in sera dropped faster, and the amount of total DNA and cccDNA in the liver decreased more significantly in the group of ducks co-immunized with DuIFN-γ gene and DHBpreS/S DNA than in other groups. Conclusion: DHBV preS/S DNA vaccine can protect ducks against DHBV infection, DuIFN-γ gene as an immune adjuvant enhances its efficacy.
A novel adapter protein employs a phosphotyrosine binding domain and exceptionally basic N-terminal domains to capture and localize an atypical protein kinase C: Characterization of Caenorhabditis elegans C kinase adapter 1, a protein that avidly binds protein kinase C3. Atypical protein kinase C isoforms (aPKCs) transmit regulatory signals to effector proteins located in the cytoplasm, nucleus, cytoskeleton, and membranes. Mechanisms by which aPKCs encounter and control effector proteins in various microenvironments are poorly understood. By using a protein interaction screen, we discovered two novel proteins that adapt a Caenorhabditis elegans aPKC (PKC3) for specialized (localized) functions; protein kinase C adapter 1 (CKA1, 593 amino acids) and CKA1S (549 amino acids) are derived from a unique mRNA by alternative utilization of two translation initiation codons. CKA1S and CKA1 are routed to the cell periphery by exceptionally basic N-terminal regions that include classical phosphorylation site domains (PSDs). Tethering of PKC3 is mediated by a segment of CKA1 that constitutes a phosphotyrosine binding (PTB) domain. Two aromatic amino acids (Phe175 and Phe 221) are indispensable for creation of a PKC3-binding surface and/or stabilization of CKA1·aPKC complexes. Patterns of CKA1 gene promoter activity and CKA1/CKA1S protein localization in vivo overlap with patterns established for PKC3 expression and distribution. Transfection experiments demonstrated that CKA1/CKA1S sequesters PKC3 in intact cells. Structural information in CKA1/CKA1S enables delivery of adapters to the lateral plasma membrane surface (near tight junctions) in polarized epithelial cells. Thus, a PTB domain and PSDs collaborate in a novel fashion in CKA1/CKA1S to enable tethering and targeting of PKC3. Avid ligation of a PKC isoform is a previously unappreciated function for a PTB module.
A secure cloud-edges computing architecture for metagenomics analysis. Portable sequencing machines, such as the Oxford Nanopore MinION, are making the genome sequencing ubiquitous. Consequently, metagenomic studies are becoming increasingly popular, yielding important insights into microbial communities covering diverse environments from terrestrial to aquatic ecosystems. Furthermore, the adoption of low-power IoT computing devices represents a feasible way of distributing and managing those machines on the field. However, a key issue is represented by the huge amount of data produced during operations, whose management is actually challenging considering the resources required for an efficient data transfer and processing. In order to deal with such a challenge, this paper put forward a novel architecture based on the coupling of Edge and Cloud computing paradigms. The focus of the paper is the Edge layer, responsible for the dynamic management of the full analysis pipeline of IoT devices producing large datasets like the MinION ones while adopting proper security mechanisms that handle the authentication of on-field devices and the confidentiality of the transmitted data.
A dominant point mutation in a RINGv E3 ubiquitin ligase homoeologous gene leads to cleistogamy in brassica napus. In the allopolyploid Brassica napus, we obtained a petal-closed flower mutation by ethyl methanesulfonate mutagenesis. Here, we report cloning and characterization of the Bn-CLG1A (CLG for cleistogamy) gene and the Bn-clg1A-1D mutant allele responsible for the cleistogamy phenotype. Bn-CLG1A encodes a RINGv E3 ubiquitin ligase that is highly conserved across eukaryotes. In the Bn-clg1A-1D mutant allele, a C-to-T transition converts a Pro at position 325 to a Leu (P325L), causing a dominant mutation leading to cleistogamy. B. napus and Arabidopsis thaliana plants transformed with a Bn-clg1A-1D allele show cleistogamous flowers, and characterization of these flowers suggests that the Bn-clg1A-1D mutation causes a pronounced negative regulation of cutin biosynthesis or loading and affects elongation or differentiation of petal and sepal cells. This results in an inhibition or a delay of petal development, leading to folded petals. A homoeologous gene (Bn-CLG1C), which shows 99.5% amino acid identity and is also constitutively and equally expressed to the wild-type Bn-CLG1A gene, was also identified. We showed that P325L is not a loss-of-function mutation and did not affect expression of Bn-clg1A-1D or Bn- CLG1C. Our findings suggest that P325L is a gain-of-function semidominant mutation, which led to either hyper- or neofunctionalization of a redundant homoeologous gene.
Deletion of gene gnd encoding 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase promotes l-serine biosynthesis in a genetically engineered strain of Methylobacterium sp. MB200. Objective: To identify potential target genes involved in l-serine biosynthesis in Methylobacterium sp. MB200 and to evaluate the gnd genetically-engineered strains for l-serine production. Results: Five genes that are not associated with the central metabolic pathway but with l-serine biosynthesis were identified from Methylobacterium sp. MB200 mutants. Gene gnd, encoding 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase (PGDH), was selected for further evaluation. The gnd deletion mutant showed a 600% increase in d-serine tolerance and an 80% decrease in PGDH activity compared to Methylobacterium sp. MB200. gnd over-expression did not affect d-serine tolerance, whereas it did increase enzyme-activity up to 136%. Additionally, analysis revealed that in Methylobacterium sp. MB200, l-serine inhibited PGDH activity. The deletion of gnd did not affect growth, whereas it did enhance the biosynthesis of l-serine, resulting in a 225% increase in production of l-serine compared to the wild-type. Conclusion: gnd, one of the five genes identified here that is associated with l-serine synthesis, can be developed as a potential candidate for metabolic engineering to promote l-serine synthesis in Methylobacterium sp. MB200.
Testing the neutral theory of molecular evolution with genomic data from Drosophila. Although positive selection has been detected in many genes, its overall contribution to protein evolution is debatable. If the bulk of molecular evolution is neutral, then the ratio of amino-acid (A) to synonymous (S) polymorphism should, on average, equal that of divergence. A comparison of the A/S ratio of polymorphism in Drosophila melanogaster with that of divergence from Drosophila simulans shows that the A/S ratio of divergence is twice as high - a difference that is often attributed to positive selection. But an increase in selective constraint owing to an increase in effective population size could also explain this observation, and, if so, all genes should be affected similarly. Here we show that the difference between polymorphism and divergence is limited to only a fraction of the genes, which are also evolving more rapidly, and this implies that positive selection is responsible. A higher A/S ratio of divergence than of polymorphism is also observed in other species, which suggests a rate of adaptive evolution that is far higher than permitted by the neutral theory of molecular evolution.
Research on Image Segmentation Algorithm Based on Multimodal Hierarchical Attention Mechanism and Genetic Neural Network. Multimodal tasks based on attention mechanism and language face numerous problems. Based on multimodal hierarchical attention mechanism and genetic neural network, this paper studies the application of image segmentation algorithm in data completion and 3D scene reconstruction. The algorithm refers to the process of concentrating attention that humans subjectively pay attention to and calculates the difference between each pixel in the genetic neural network test image in the color space and the average value of the target image, which solves the problem of static feature maps and dynamic feature maps of image sequences. In addition, in view of the problem that the number of attention enhancement feature extraction modules is too large and the parameters are too large, the recursive mechanism is used as the feature extraction branch, and new model parameters are not added when the network depth is increased. The simulation results show that the accuracy of the improved image saliency detection algorithm based on the attention mechanism reaches 89.7%, and the difference between the average value of the single-point pixel and the target image is reduced to 0.132, which further promotes the practicability and reliability of the image segmentation model.
Cell wall fracture properties in relation to lignin distribution and cell dimensions among three genetic groups of radiata pine. The position of fracture within the cell wall on split tangential longitudinal surfaces of air dry wood was quantified for three genetic groups of Pinus radiata D. Don. Differences in the position of fracture within the cell wall among these groups of trees were compared with lignin distribution and cell wall dimensions. In the control trees equivalent to typical New Zealand grown radiata pine, fracture occurred predominantly between the middle lamella and S1 layers as well as within the S1 layer, producing large numbers of fines on the fracture surface. In the open pollinated NZ850-55 group, fracture occurred predominantly between the S1 and S2 layers as well as within the S1 layer, producing fewer fines on the surface. In the NZ850-55 x Guadalupe group, fracture occurred in a similar fashion to the open pollinated group except for a greater number of transwall fractures exposing the cell lumen on the fracture surface. The differences in fracture behaviour between the control and genetically select groups are attributed to reduced lignification at the S1/S2 boundary in the genetically select trees. Observed differences in both the type of fracture and its location were unrelated to cell dimensions. These observations are discussed in relation to the observed differences in thermomechanical pulping properties exhibited by these groups of trees.
Transcriptome-wide identification of microRNAs in the roots of Pinus massoniana seedlings under Pi stress and Pi recovery. Phosphorus (Pi) deficiency is an important factor affecting plant growth and development, and there are still some gaps in the understanding of the underlying molecular mechanism of the response to low-Pi stress in Pinus massoniana. Through an integrated high-throughput sequencing analysis of the miRNAome and transcriptome, a comprehensive study of the global miRNAs and mRNAs of P. massoniana seedling roots was conducted under Pi stress and Pi recovery. miRNAome analysis showed that 31 mRNAs (306 target genes) were differentially expressed in P. massoniana seedling roots under Pi stress and that 80 miRNAs (1091 target genes) were differentially expressed after Pi recovery. Comprehensive analyses of the miRNAome and transcriptome showed that miR399, miR11413-y, miR529-y, novel-m0045-3p and other miRNAs may participate in the response of P. massoniana to low-Pi stress by regulating target genes. Some genes and miRNAs were randomly selected for RT-qPCR validation, and the detected expression levels were basically consistent with the sequencing results. These results provide valuable information for a more comprehensive understanding of the low-Pi-tolerance adaptation mechanisms of P. massoniana as well as other conifers.
Rapid detection of Brugia malayi in mosquito vectors using a real-time fluorescence resonance energy transfer PCR and melting curve analysis. We developed real-time fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) polymerase chain reaction (PCR) combined with melting curve analysis for detection of Brugia malayi DNA in blood-fed mosquitoes. Real-time FRET PCR is based on a fluorescence melting curve analysis of hybrid formed between amplicons generated from a family of repeated DNA element, 153-bp HhaI repeated sequence, specific to genus Brugia and specific fluorophore-labeled probes. The B. malayi-infected mosquitoes were differentiated from Wuchereria bancrofti-infected and uninfected mosquitoes and from genomic DNA of Dirofilaria immitis- and Plasmodium falciparum-infected human red blood cells and human leukocytes by their melting temperature. Sensitivity and specificity were both 100%. Melting curve analysis produces a rapid, accurate, and sensitive alternative for specific detection of B. malayi in mosquitoes, allows high throughput, and can be performed on small samples. This method has the potential for endemic area mapping or monitoring effect of brugian filariasis mass treatment programs.
Phylogenomic analysis of 2556 single-copy protein-coding genes resolves most evolutionary relationships for the major clades in the most diverse group of lichen-forming fungi. Phylogenomic datasets continue to enhance our understanding of evolutionary relationships in many lineages of organisms. However, genome-scale data have not been widely implemented in reconstructing relationships in lichenized fungi. Here we generate a data set comprised of 2556 single-copy protein-coding genes to reconstruct previously unresolved relationships in the most diverse family of lichen-forming fungi, Parmeliaceae. Our sampling included 51 taxa, mainly from the subfamily Parmelioideae, and represented six of the seven previously identified major clades within the family. Our results provided strong support for the monophyly of each of these major clades and most backbone relationships in the topology were recovered with high nodal support based on concatenated dataset and species tree analyses. The alectorioid clade was strongly supported as sister-group to all remaining clades, which were divided into two major sister-groups. In the first major clade the anzioid and usneoid clades formed a strongly supported sister-group relationship with the cetrarioid + hypogymnioid group. The sister-group relationship of Evernia with the cetrarioid clade was also strongly supported, whereas that between the anzioid and usneoid clades needs further investigation. In the second major clade Oropogon and Platismatia were sister to the parmelioid group, while the position of Omphalora was not fully resolved. This study demonstrates the power of genome-scale data sets to resolve long-standing, ambiguous phylogenetic relationships of lichen-forming fungi. Furthermore, the topology inferred in this study will provide a valuable framework for better understanding diversification in the most diverse lineage of lichen-forming fungi, Parmeliaceae.
Bovine interferon-tau expression in Escherichia coli and identification of its biological activities. The bovine interferon-tau (bIFN-) gene, with signal sequence, was obtained through polymerase chain reaction (PCR) from bovine early embryos and subcloned into a pGEM-T vector. After being verified, the fragments, with or without signal sequence, were inserted into the expression vector pET-30a(+). Two recombinant plasmids were induced to express the recombinant proteins by isopropyl -d-1-thiogalactopyranoside. The results showed that the bIFN- gene could be obtained from five bovine blastocysts by PCR without extraction of genomic DNA. It had 99% homology with nucleotides and 97% with amino acids in the GenBank sequence (accession number: XM-593584). The products of recombinant bIFN-, minus signal sequence, expressed in pET-30a(+) were analysed by SDS-PAGE. A new 20 kDa protein was detected and its molecular weight was as expected. The antiviral activity of recombinant bIFN- was 1104 IU/mg using a standard cytopathic reduction assay. Marked morphological changes were induced by recombinant bIFN- in bovine endometrial epithelial cells. The cell volume was larger than that of controls and a lot of vesicles appeared in the cytoplasm after 24 h culture in the presence of 2.9 g/ml recombinant bIFN-. In conclusion, a purified recombinant, biologically active bIFN- was obtained in this experiment.
Identifying randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers linked to major genes for common bacterial blight resistance in tepary bean. Common bacterial blight (CBB), incited by Xanthomonas campestris pv. phaseoli (Xcp), is an important seed-transmitted disease of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.). Tepary bean (Phaseolus acutifolius A. Gray) has high resistance to Xcp. The objective of this study was to identify RAPD markers linked to genes controlling resistance to three isolates of Xcp using bulked segregant analysis in an F2 population from the tepary bean cross CIAT-G40005 (resistant to Xcp) x Nebr. 4B (susceptible to Xcp). Twelve RAPD markers were mapped in a coupling-phase linkage with three genes for resistance to Xcp. The linkage group spanned a distance of 19.2 cM. A marker L7750 was linked to the genes for resistance to Xcp strains EK-11 and LB-2 at 8.4 cM and 2.4 cM, respectively. Markers U10400 and Y14600 were detected as flanking markers for the resistance gene to Xcp strain SC-4A at 2.4 cM and 7.2 cM, respectively. The symbols Xcp-1, Xcp-2, and Xcp-3 were assigned for the genes for resistance to Xcp strains EK-11, LB-2, and SC-4A, respectively. RAPD markers linked to the genes for resistance to Xcp could be used for transferring all of the resistance genes from P. acutifolius to a susceptible P. vulgaris cultivar.
The sterol modifying enzyme LET-767 is essential for growth, reproduction and development in Caenorhabditis elegans. The let-767 gene encodes a protein that is similar to mammalian steroid enzymes that are responsible for the reduction of 17-beta hydroxysteroid hormones. Caenorhabditis elegans is incapable of the de novo synthesis of cholesterol. Therefore, this free-living nematode must extract cholesterol from its environment and modify it to form steroid hormones that are necessary for its survival. C. elegans is unable to survive in the absence of supplemental cholesterol, and is therefore sensitive to cholesterol limitation. We show that a mutation in let-767 results in hypersensitivity to cholesterol limitation, supporting the hypothesis that LET-767 acts on a sterol derivative. Furthermore, let-767 mutants exhibit defects in embryogenesis, female reproduction and molting. Although ecdysone is the major molting hormone in insects, there is as yet no evidence for ecdysone synthesis in C. elegans, suggesting that a different hormone is required for molting in C. elegans. Our results suggest that LET-767 modifies a sterol hormone that is required both for embryogenesis and for later stages of development.
Fibropapillomatosis in green turtles Chelonia mydas in Brazil: Characteristics of tumors and virus. Fibropapillomatosis (FP) is a benign neoplasia that affects physiological functions of sea turtles and may lead to death. High prevalence of FP in sea turtle populations has prompted several research groups to study the disease and the associated herpesvirus, chelonid herpesvirus 5 (ChHV5). The present study detected and quantified ChHV5 in 153 fibropapilloma samples collected from green turtles Chelonia mydas on the Brazilian coast between 2009 and 2010 to characterize the relationship between viral load and tumor characteristics. Of the tumor samples collected, 73 and 87% were positive for ChHV5 in conventional PCR and real-time PCR, respectively, and viral loads ranged between 1 and 118.62 copies cell-1. Thirty-three percent of turtles were mildly, 28% were moderately and 39% were severely affected with FP. Skin samples were used as negative control. High viral loads correlated positively with increasing FP severity in turtles sampled on the Brazilian coast and with samples from turtles found dead in the states of São Paulo and Bahia. Six viral variants were detected in tumor samples, 4 of which were similar to the Atlantic phylogenetic group. Two variants were similar to the western Atlantic/eastern Caribbean phylogenetic group. Co-infection in turtles with more than one variant was observed in the states of São Paulo and Bahia.
Investigation of protein-nucleic interactions in tobacco mosaic virus by the method of spin label and fluorescence. The authors have investigated protein-nucleic interactions in tobacco mosaic virus reconstructed in vitro. It was found that RNA links up with protein in the region of lysine 53 of the protein chain. It is shown that at μ 0·2 and pH 7·2 when protein is in the form of discs there is "exposed" for interaction a portion of protein which is inaccessible at a low ionic strength of the solution μ < 0·1 when protein is in the form of A-protein. It is assumed that this change in the conformation of the protein molecule accounts for the need for disc aggregates and for the initiation of reconstruction.
Variations on a theme in fruit development: the PLE lineage of MADS-box genes in tomato (TAGL1) and other species. Main conclusion: This article focuses on the role of TOMATO AGAMOUS-LIKE 1 (TAGL1) on a wide range of ripening functions in tomato. We also examine orthologs of this gene in related species that produce different fruit types and discuss some evolutionary implications. TOMATO AGAMOUS-LIKE 1 (TAGL1) is a MADS-box transcription factor gene that belongs to the PLENA (PLE) lineage within the AGAMOUS (AG) clade. The most well-studied genes in this lineage are the SHATTERPROOF (SHP) genes in Arabidopsis, known to be involved in dehiscence zone formation during silique development. In tomato, TAGL1 has been shown to control several aspects of tomato fruit ripening. Most notably, carotenoid synthesis seems to be controlled by TAGL1, likely via the ethylene synthesis and signaling pathway and in combination with RIPENING INHIBITOR (RIN). In addition, TAGL1 regulates genes involved in cell cycle regulation, flavonoid and lignin biosynthesis, and cuticle development. We discuss many of the genes in these different pathways that are likely controlled by TAGL1, directly or indirectly. We also examine the relationship of TAGL1 with known and putative interaction partners. PLE lineage genes have also been examined in other species such as Antirrhinum, Petunia, and Nicotiana and provide an interesting example of conservation and diversification of function in species that produce very different types of fleshy and dry fruits. The control of lignification may be a common mechanism for this group of genes. Lastly, we discuss future work needed to elucidate the TAGL1 regulatory pathway in tomato and to help better understand the functional diversification of genes in this lineage in related species.
Global small RNA analysis in fast-growing Arabidopsis thaliana with elevated concentrations of ATP and sugars. Background: In higher eukaryotes, small RNAs play a role in regulating gene expression. Overexpression (OE) lines of Arabidopsis thaliana purple acid phosphatase 2 (AtPAP2) were shown to grow faster and exhibit higher ATP and sugar contents. Leaf microarray studies showed that many genes involved in microRNAs (miRNAs) and trans-acting siRNAs (tasiRNAs) biogenesis were significantly changed in the fast-growing lines. In this study, the sRNA profiles of the leaf and the root of 20-day-old plants were sequenced and the impacts of high energy status on sRNA expression were analyzed.Results: 9-13 million reads from each library were mapped to genome. miRNAs, tasiRNAs and natural antisense transcripts-generated small interfering RNAs (natsiRNAs) were identified and compared between libraries. In the leaf of OE lines, 15 known miRNAs increased in abundance and 9 miRNAs decreased in abundance, whereas in the root of OE lines, 2 known miRNAs increased in abundance and 9 miRNAs decreased in abundance. miRNAs with increased abundance in the leaf and root samples of both OE lines (miR158b and miR172a/b) were predicted to target mRNAs coding for Dof zinc finger protein and Apetala 2 (AP2) proteins, respectively. Furthermore, a significant change in the miR173-tasiRNAs-PPR/TPR network was observed in the leaves of both OE lines.Conclusion: In this study, the impact of high energy content on the sRNA profiles of Arabidopsis is reported. While the abundance of many stress-induced miRNAs is unaltered, the abundance of some miRNAs related to plant growth and development (miR172 and miR319) is elevated in the fast-growing lines. An induction of miR173-tasiRNAs-PPR/TPR network was also observed in the OE lines. In contrast, only few cis- and trans-natsiRNAs are altered in the fast-growing lines.
Inoculation methods of Xanthomonas campestris pv. passiflorae in passion fruits and biofertilizers on bacterial growth inhibition in vitro. The passion fruit (Passiflora spp.) bacterial spot caused by Xanthomonas campestris pv. passiflorae is one of the major diseases that affects the culture. To obtain varieties resistant to this bacterium, several inoculation methods should be tested. The objective of this study was to evaluate different methods of Xanthomonas campestris pv. passiflorae inoculation in passion fruits and to evaluate the inhibitory effect of biofertilizers on bacterial growth in vitro. Seven passion fruit genotypes were inoculated with a bacterial suspension (1×108 CFU.mL-1) by spraying, scissors and tweezers. The biofertilizers Agro-Mos, Cop-R-Quik, FitoForce Plus and Soil-Set were evaluated for bacterial growth inhibition in vitro. Spraying was the most practical and rapid inoculation method, in relation to the others, in obtaining the disease symptoms, and all evaluated genotypes were susceptible to Xanthomonas campestris pv. passiflorae. The biofertilizers FitoForce Plus and Soil-Set inhibited Xanthomonas campestris pv. passiflorae growth in vitro and should be evaluated for the bacterium control under field conditions.
Chromosome segregation in Archaea: SegA– and SegB–DNA complex structures provide insights into segrosome assembly. Genome segregation is a vital process in all organisms. Chromosome partitioning remains obscure in Archaea, the third domain of life. Here, we investigated the SegAB system from Sulfolobus solfataricus. SegA is a ParA Walker-type ATPase and SegB is a site-specific DNA-binding protein. We determined the structures of both proteins and those of SegA–DNA and SegB–DNA complexes. The SegA structure revealed an atypical, novel non-sandwich dimer that binds DNA either in the presence or in the absence of ATP. The SegB structure disclosed a ribbon–helix–helix motif through which the protein binds DNA site specifically. The association of multiple interacting SegB dimers with the DNA results in a higher order chromatin-like structure. The unstructured SegB N-terminus plays an essential catalytic role in stimulating SegA ATPase activity and an architectural regulatory role in segrosome (SegA–SegB–DNA) formation. Electron microscopy results also provide a compact ring-like segrosome structure related to chromosome organization. These findings contribute a novel mechanistic perspective on archaeal chromosome segregation.
Evolution of a global regulator: Lrp in four orders of γ-Proteobacteria. Background: Bacterial global regulators each regulate the expression of several hundred genes. In Escherichia coli, the top seven global regulators together control over half of all genes. Leucine-responsive regulatory protein (Lrp) is one of these top seven global regulators. Lrp orthologs are very widely distributed, among both Bacteria and Archaea. Surprisingly, even within the phylum γ-Proteobacteria (which includes E. coli), Lrp is a global regulator in some orders and a local regulator in others. This raises questions about the evolution of Lrp and, more broadly, of global regulators. Results: We examined Lrp sequences from four bacterial orders of the γ-Proteobacteria using phylogenetic and Logo analyses. The orders studied were Enterobacteriales and Vibrionales, in which Lrp plays a global role in tested species; Pasteurellales, in which Lrp is a local regulator in the tested species; and Alteromonadales, an order closely related to the other three but in which Lrp has not yet been studied. For comparison, we analyzed the Lrp paralog AsnC, which in all tested cases is a local regulator. The Lrp and AsnC phylogenetic clusters each divided, as expected, into subclusters representing the Enterobacteriales, Vibrionales, and Pasteuralles. However the Alteromonadales did not yield coherent clusters for either Lrp or AsnC. Logo analysis revealed signatures associated with globally- vs. locally- acting Lrp orthologs, providing testable hypotheses for which portions of Lrp are responsible for a global vs. local role. These candidate regions include both ends of the Lrp polypeptide but not, interestingly, the highly-conserved helix-turn-helix motif responsible for DNA sequence specificity. Conclusions: Lrp and AsnC have conserved sequence signatures that allow their unambiguous annotation, at least in γ-Proteobacteria. Among Lrp orthologs, specific residues correlated with global vs. local regulatory roles, and can now be tested to determine which are functionally relevant and which simply reflect divergence. In the Alteromonadales, it appears that there are different subgroups of Lrp orthologs, one of which may act globally while the other may act locally. These results suggest experiments to improve our understanding of the evolution of bacterial global regulators.
Biodegradation of pyrene and benzo[a]pyrene in the liquid matrix and soil by a newly identified Raoultella planticola strain. In the current study, the PL7 strain was isolated from soil and identified as Raoultella planticola based on its physiological characteristics and 16S rDNA sequence. By the 10th day, the PL7 strain degraded 52.0% of the pyrene (PYR) content and 50.8% of the benzo[a]pyrene (BaP) content in 20\xa0mg\xa0L−1 PYR and 10\xa0mg\xa0L−1 BaP in the liquid matrix. The half-life of PYR and BaP by PL7 degradation was 8.59 and 9.46\xa0days, respectively. At pH 8.0, the degradation rates of PYR and BaP by PL7 were significantly higher at 30\xa0°C than at 20 and 40\xa0°C. The degradation ability of PL7 differed in red soil, paddy soil and fluvo-aquic soil; red soil produced the fastest degradation rates. The half-life of PYR and BaP by PL7 degradation in red soil was 21.7 and 11.9\xa0days, respectively; however, without PL7 the half-life of PYR in red soil was 91.2\xa0days. This study demonstrated the significant potential of the PL7 strain for bioremediation applications in the liquid matrix and soil contaminated by PAHs.
Minimum weight design of sinusoidal corrugated web beam using differential evolution algorithm. Due to their many advantages, corrugated steel plates are widely used in various applications including bridges. Starting with airplane design, these corrugated steel plates have been used in civil engineering applications such as buildings and bridges, and many studies on corrugated steel plates are being conducted. However, most of these studies focused on the strength of girders through analysis and experiment of corrugated steel plates and studies on the optimization of corrugated steel plates are still insufficient. The present study developed the weight optimum design using the differential evolution and investigated the effects of parameters. The optimization program was verified with differential evolution through the numerical analysis examples of simple beams and fixed beams. For this verification, the optimization program using the genetic algorithm that has been studied was compared with the weight optimum graph of the optimization program of differential evolution proposed in this study. As a result, the graphs of these two optimization programs increased similarly. The change rate was 3.57% or lower in the example of uniformly load for fixed beam, 1.60% or lower in the example of concentrated load for fixed beam, and 1.44% or lower in the example of uniformly load for simple beam. Furthermore, in the graph of changing design variables, the changing web thickness showed a similar trend as the increasing trend of the optimum sectional area.
Effects of anthropogenic disturbances on natural regeneration and population structure of gum arabic tree (Acacia senegal) in the woodlands of Lake Baringo ecosystem, Kenya. Despite the ecological and economic importance of Acacia senegal, little is known about the effects of anthropogenic disturbances on its natural regeneration patterns and population structure. We investigated the effects of these factors within the Lake Baringo woodland ecosystem. Data was collected from 60 plots of 20 m\xa0×\xa020 m systematically distributed in four A. senegal-dominated populations within the Lake Baringo woodland. Sample populations spanned a degradation gradient measured by a population disturbance index (PDI). Trees were measured for diameter at breast height (DBH) and categorized by growth stages: seedling, sapling and adult tree. Higher seedling and sapling densities were recorded in lightly than heavily disturbed populations, but only sapling density was significantly different between the two disturbance levels (P = 0.02). Lightly disturbed populations revealed a reversed J-shape size-class distribution (SCD) indicative of stable structure unlike the heavily disturbed populations. The quotient and permutation indices indicated unstable populations with episodic recruitment and mortality. Our study reveals that natural regeneration and population structure of A. senegal were affected majorly by selective harvesting and heavy browsing. Suitable management strategies to control livestock grazing and illegal tree harvesting within the woodland is required to promote conservation of the species genetic resources.
Interstitial hybridization sites of the (TTAGGG)n telomeric sequence on the chromosomes of some North American hylid frogs. Interstitial hybridization sites for the (TTAGGG)n telomeric repeat sequence were present in all seven species of hylid frogs examined and in a triploid hybrid between two of the species. Intra- and interspecific differences and similarities in hybridization sites agreed with what is known about the systematics of these species. Chromosome fusions, fissions, and inversions do not appear to have played a role in the evolution of the interstitial sites for the telomeric repeat in the species examined.
Toward a comprehensive developmental model for major depression in women. Objective: Major depression is a multifactorial disorder with many etiologic variables that are interrelated through developmental pathways. The authors used structural equation modeling to generate a developmental model for the etiology of major depression in women. Method: Data from 1,942 adult female twins, interviewed up to four times over a 9-year period, were used to construct a developmental model to predict depressive episodes in the year before the most recent interview. Eighteen risk factors in five developmental tiers were considered: 1) childhood (genetic risk, disturbed family environment, childhood sexual abuse, and childhood parental loss), 2) early adolescence (neuroticism, self-esteem, and early-onset anxiety and conduct disorder), 3) late adolescence (educational attainment, lifetime traumas, social support, and substance misuse), 4) adulthood (history of divorce and past history of major depression), and 5) the last year (marital problems, difficulties, and stressful life events). Results: The best fitting model included six correlations and 64 paths, provided an excellent fit to the data, and explained 52% of the variance in liability to episodes of major depression. The findings suggest that the development of risk for major depression in women results from three broad pathways reflecting internalizing symptoms, externalizing symptoms, and psychosocial adversity. Conclusions: Major depression is an etiologically complex disorder, the full understanding of which will require consideration of a broad array of risk factors from multiple domains. These results, while plausible, should be treated with caution because of problems with causal inference, retrospective recall bias, and the limitations of a purely additive statistical model.
Bats as natural samplers: First record of the invasive pest rice water weevil Lissorhoptrus oryzophilus in the Iberian Peninsula. We face an increasing global food security challenge as the human population continues to grow across the globe. As agricultural production rises to keep up with food demand, so too does the expansion of crop detrimental pest species. Early detection can be crucial to control their damage and relies on the use of accurate and dependable techniques. We report the first record of rice water weevil (Lissorhoptrus oryzophilus) in the Iberian Peninsula. The distribution range expansion of this invasive rice pest weevil is confirmed through traditional sampling and through natural sampling by bats combined with DNA metabarcoding, a non-invasive technique with strong potential for early detection of pests in agricultural areas. Presence of rice water weevil was confirmed genetically from bat faecal samples collected from a Pipistrellus pygmaeus bat roost in the Ebro Delta (Catalonia, Spain). The known distribution of this rice pest, native to North America, now includes four of the top five rice-producing European countries. To date, the economic damage caused by this pest in Europe is minimal and concentrated in small areas, but chemical and agronomic controls are implemented to control their populations. The nature of this record highlights the potential of insectivorous bats as natural samplers to detect (and possibly control) pest species in crops. Further studies are required to determine the full extent of the rice water weevil's spread, and to investigate integrated pest management systems, including biological control to suppress their populations.
Isolation of pathogenic Leptospira strains from naturally infected cattle in Uruguay reveals high serovar diversity, and uncovers a relevant risk for human leptospirosis. Leptospirosis is a neglected zoonosis with worldwide distribution. The causative agents are spirochete bacteria of the Leptospira genus, displaying huge diversity of serovars, the identity of which is critical for effective diagnosis and vaccination purposes. Among many other mammalian species, Leptospira infects cattle, eliciting acute signs in calves, and chronic disease in adult animals often leading to abortions. In South America, and including in Uruguay, beef and dairy export are leading sources of national income. Despite the importance of bovine health, food safety, and bovine-related dissemination of leptospirosis to humans, extremely limited information is available as to the identity of Leptospira species and serovars infecting cattle in Uruguay and the South American subcontinent. Here we report a multicentric 3-year study resulting in the isolation and detailed characterization of 40 strains of Leptospira spp. obtained from infected cattle. Combined serologic and molecular typing identified these isolates as L. interrogans serogroup Pomona serovar Kennewicki (20 strains), L. interrogans serogroup Canicola serovar Canicola (1 strain), L. borgpetersenii serogroup Sejroe serovar Hardjo (10 strains) and L. noguchii (9 strains). The latter showed remarkable phenotypic and genetic variability, belonging to 6 distinct serogroups, including 3 that did not react with a large panel of reference serogrouping antisera. Approximately 20% of cattle sampled in the field were found to be shedding pathogenic Leptospira in their urine, uncovering a threat for public health that is being largely neglected. The two L. interrogans serovars that we isolated from cattle displayed identical genetic signatures to those of human isolates that had previously been obtained from leptospirosis patients. This report of local Leptospira strains shall improve diagnostic tools and the understanding of leptospirosis epidemiology in South America. These strains could also be used as new components within bacterin vaccines to protect against the pathogenic Leptospira strains that are actually circulating, a direct measure to reduce the risk of human leptospirosis.
Populations of the cattle tick (Boophilus microplus) on purebred Nellore, Ibage and Nellore × European crossbreds in the Brazilian savanna. Studies on purebred Nellore cattle and their crosses with Fleckvieh, Chianina, Charolais and the Ibagé breed (5/8 Aberdeen Angus, 3/8 Nellore) during 39 months in the field gave mean daily counts for engorging female ticks of 3·3, 25·2, 22·2, 21·0 and 59·7 per animal respectively. Annual fluctuations were similar in all groups; with the exception of the purebred Nellore mean counts are at levels considered dangerous for the stability of enzootic tick fever.
Forelimb versus hindlimb skeletal development in the big brown bat, Eptesicus fuscus: Functional divergence is reflected in chondrocytic performance in autopodial growth plates. The morphology of the chiropteran forelimb demonstrates musculoskeletal specializations for powered flight essentially unique among mammals, including extreme elongation of the distal skeletal elements. Recent studies have focused primarily on the relative timing and levels of gene expression during early stages of endochondral ossification in the chiropteran embryo for clues to the molecular basis of the evolutionary origins of flight in these species. The goal of the current study was to examine how elongation of skeletal elements of the forelimb autopod is achieved through a combination of cellular proliferation, cellular enlargement and matrix synthesis during a period of rapid postnatal growth in Eptesicus fuscus. Quantitative analyses were done of multiple performance parameters of growth plate chondrocytes during all phases of the differentiation cascade. Fourteen autopodial growth plates from the forelimb and hindlimb of one individual, as well as the proximal tibial growth plate, were collected and analyzed. Significant differences were seen in all performance parameters examined. Particularly striking were the differences between growth plates of the manus and pes in the size of the pool of chondrocytes in all cellular zones and rates of turnover of terminal cells. The magnitude of hypertrophy of chondrocytes in growth plates of the manus in E. fuscus far exceeded what has been reported previously in any species, even in rapidly elongating rodent long bones. Volume changes approaching ×70 and height changes of 50-60 μm/cell (paralleling the direction of growth) occurred after proliferation in the most rapidly growing growth plates. The data demonstrate that final differences in lengths of homologous skeletal elements in the autopod of the forelimb and hindlimb of this species result not just from an initiating factor early in development, but from continued quantitative differences in chondrocytic performance during postnatal bone elongation as measured by multiple kinetic-based parameters.
Genomes of surface isolates of Alteromonas macleodii: The life of a widespread marine opportunistic copiotroph. Alteromonas macleodii is a marine gammaproteobacterium with widespread distribution in temperate or tropical waters. We describe three genomes of isolates from surface waters around Europe (Atlantic, Mediterranean and Black Sea) and compare them with a previously described deep Mediterranean isolate (AltDE) that belongs to a widely divergent clade. The surface isolates are quite similar, the most divergent being the Black Sea (BS11) isolate. The genomes contain several genomic islands with different gene content. The recruitment of very similar genomic fragments from metagenomes in different locations indicates that the surface clade is globally abundant with little effect of geography, even the AltDE and the BS11 genomes recruiting from surface samples in open ocean locations. The finding of CRISPR protospacers of AltDE in a lysogenic phage in the Atlantic (English Channel) isolate illustrates a flow of genetic material among these clades and a remarkably wide distribution of this phage.
Two-stage product platform development for mass customisation. Designing new products based on those features (platforms) that have proven successful or 'fit' is generally termed as 'platform product development (PPD)'. This approach provides a basis for mass customisation (MC) which largely enhances an enterprise's competitiveness in terms of the speed, quality and cost. Currently, however, the PPD approach is heavily dependent on the experience and skills of individual designers and managers. Researchers have been working on platform leveraging strategies at the strategic level, and guidelines for better structuring the approach to facilitate its adoption and implementation. This research project recognises an equal need for scientific decision supports at the tactical level for design practitioners and managers to address fundamental questions such as: (A) how a platform should be established for a family of products in a given industrial and market context; and (B) how a product development team chooses and then customises the most appropriate product platform to meet the customer requirements from a specific market segment with particular manufacturing resources and supply bases. This paper describes a scientific and effective decision - genetic algorithm to assist product development practitioners and managers with major decision activities in the process of platform product development under several focus areas.
Trasfugen: Traffic assignment of urban network by an approximation fuzzy genetic algorithm. This paper proposes the Trasfugen method for traffic assignment aimed at solving the user equilibrium problem. To this end, the method makes use of a genetic algorithm. A fuzzy system is proposed for controlling the mutation and crossover rates of the genetic algorithm, and the corrective strategy is exploited for handling the equilibrium problem constraints. In the model, an approximation algorithm is proposed for obtaining the paths between the origin-destination pairs in the demand matrix. Unlike the traditional deterministic algorithm that has exponential time complexity, this approximation algorithm has polynomial time complexity and is executed much faster. Afterward, the Trasfugen method is applied to the urban network of Tehran metropolitan and the efficiency is investigated. Upon comparing the results obtained from the proposed model with those obtained from the conventional traffic assignment method, namely, the Frank-Wolfe method; it is shown that the proposed algorithm, while acting worse during the initial iterations, achieves better results in the subsequent iterations. Moreover, it prevents the occurrence of local optimal points as well as early/premature convergence, thus producing better results than the Frank-Wolfe algorithm.
Functional studies of aegerolysin and MACPF-like proteins in Aspergillus niger. Proteins of the aegerolysin family have a high abundance in Fungi. Due to their specific binding to membrane lipids, and their membrane-permeabilization potential in concert with protein partner(s) belonging to a membrane-attack-complex/perforin (MACPF) superfamily, they were proposed as useful tools in different biotechnological and biomedical applications. In this work, we performed functional studies on expression of the genes encoding aegerolysin and MACPF-like proteins in Aspergillus niger. Our results suggest the sporulation process being crucial for strong induction of the expression of all these genes. However, deletion of either of the aegerolysin genes did not influence the growth, development, sporulation efficiency and phenotype of the mutants, indicating that aegerolysins are not key factors in the sporulation process. In all our expression studies we noticed a strong correlation in the expression of one aegerolysin and MACPF-like gene. Aegerolysins were confirmed to be secreted from the fungus. We also showed the specific interaction of a recombinant A. niger aegerolysin with an invertebrate-specific membrane sphingolipid. Moreover, using this protein labelled with mCherry we successfully stained insect cells membranes containing this particular sphingolipid. Our combined results suggest, that aegerolysins in this species, and probably also in other aspergilli, could be involved in defence against predators.
Biological Invasion of Medically Important Bladder Snail Physella acuta Draparnaud, 1805 (Gastropoda, Physidae) in the Freshwater Habitat of Kerala, India. The acute bladder snail, Physella acuta (Draparnaud 1805) is globally considered as a highly invasive snail and it is synonymised to Physa acuta. This species is host to many trematodes causing foodborne diseases in humans. In the present study, P. acuta is recorded for the first time from Kerala state with its first mitochondrial DNA cytochrome c oxidase subunit I gene sequence from India. Twenty-three live specimens of P. acuta were collected from the Edappally Canal in Kochi, Kerala, India using a standard scoop net. The species was identified by morphological studies and confirmed using the barcoding technique. The snail was found attached to invasive freshwater plant Ceratophyllum demersum and other gastropod species Indoplanorbis exustus and Racesina luteola. The density of P. acuta was recorded as 25 ± 10 individuals per 50\xa0cm long shoot. The shell length of the snail ranged between 3.2 and 7 mm, shell width 2–4 mm, aperture length 2.4–5.2 mm, aperture width 1–2 mm, and spire height 0.9–1.8 mm. The dead vacant shell has brownish yellow in colour while the live individuals were translucent having golden yellowish colour. The nucleotide BLAST results showed 100% similarity with the P. acuta sequences reported from Iraq. The specimen also showed a close match with the mtDNA COI sequence from Singapore, Thailand, Southeast Europe, France, Chile and the United States. The introduction of the snail to India is mainly through the aquarium trade. Their rapid growth rate, air-breathing capabilities and pollution tolerance make them a potential competitor to the native fauna. Besides, they could act as mediators of foodborne diseases in this southern state of the country.
Will Climate Warming Alter Biotic Stresses in Wild Lowbush Blueberries?. As global temperatures rise, a growing need exists for understanding the impacts of warming on crop production. Warming not only changes crop physiology and growth but also the weeds, insect pests, and diseases of crops including wild lowbush blueberries, which have not been studied till now. Changes in pest pressures can cause instability in production and will require changes in management practices and the development of mitigation strategies. The objective of this study was to determine the impacts of warming on the prevalence of major weeds, insect pests, and diseases of the wild blueberry production system. We selected six genotypes of wild lowbush blueberries in a commercially managed wild blueberry field in Maine Northeast USA and used open-top-chambers (OTCs) to study the effects of warming for two years (2019 and 2020). Both active-heating OTCs (elevated monthly mean temperatures by 3.3◦ C) and passive-heating OTCs (elevated by 1.2◦ C) were employed and compared with ambient controls. Our results showed that warming did not change the prevalence of red leaf disease, blueberry gall midge, red-striped fireworm, or any weed species. In contrast, the incidence of Sphaerulina leaf spot, powdery mildew, and other leaf spot disease were significantly lower under warming treatments compared to the ambient control at the end of the growing season in 2020. Overall, different pests responded to warming differently, inviting further research to reveal the mechanisms. The lower overall pressure of leaf spot disease under warming was probably due to decreased air humidity.
Integrated lysis procedures reduce extraction biases of microbial DNA from mangrove sediment. Sufficient lysis of soil or sediment microbes is a critical step for analyzing microbial community structures and for preparing metagenomic DNA libraries. The present study compared lysis methods for recovering archaeal, bacterial, actinomycete, and fungal DNAs from a mangrove sediment sample. PCR results showed that individual procedures using SDS, lysozyme, sonication, freeze-thaw, microwave, and vigorous shaking could extract archaeal or bacterial DNA but failed for actinomycetes or fungi cells. In comparison, an integrated lysis procedure using SDS, lysozyme, and vigorous shaking successfully obtained fungal DNA, and a combination of SDS, lysozyme, vigorous shaking, and microwave treatments recovered DNA from actinomycetes. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) results showed that although single lysis procedures can lyse bacterial DNA, all of them assessed the indigenous bacterial community structure with significant biases. The integrated lysis protocols described in the present study could be useful for extracting DNA from various types of sediments.
Individual responses to predation risk and food density in perch (Perca fluviatilis L.). Perch, Perca fluviatilis, of different sizes and ages were allowed to choose between two feeding patches differing in food ratio and (or) predation risk (presence versus absence of a pike, Esox lucius). The aim of our study was to test whether food-patch choice and risk-taking behaviour (time with the predator present) were related to size, phenotype (fast- versus slow-growing) and (or) stage of development (mature versus immature). Movements of individual fish were continuously monitored with an automatic system employing passive integrated transponder (PIT) tags. Food distribution did not seem to be important in determining perch distribution. Predation risk, however, had a significant influence. The presence of a predator in a patch significantly reduced the proportion of time spent in that feeding patch by all perch. However, the strength of this effect was dependent on individual characteristics, both the slow-growing phenotype and the mature fish spending a significantly lower proportion of time in the risky patch than the fast-growing and immature fish. Switching rates, which differed between character groups, also had an effect on growth rate, varying with predation risk.
Tree genetics strongly affect forest productivity, but intraspecific diversity–productivity relationships do not. Numerous studies have demonstrated biodiversity–productivity relationships in plant communities, and analogous genetic diversity–productivity studies using genotype mixtures of single species may show similar patterns. Alternatively, competing individuals among genotypes within a species are less likely to exhibit resource-use complementarity, even when they exhibit large differences in their effects on ecosystem function. In this study, we test the impact of genotype diversity and genetic identity on ecosystem function using an ecosystem-scale common garden experiment. Distinct tree genotypes were collected across the entire natural range of the riparian tree Populus fremontii in the USA, and grown in 1–16 genotype combination forest stands. Due to the warm climate and irrigation of the planting location along the Colorado River (AZ, USA), mature forest physiognomy with trees up to 19\xa0m tall was achieved in just five years. Several key patterns emerged: (i) genotype richness did not predict forest productivity, suggesting a lack of net biodiversity effects; (ii) we found differences among genotype monoculture stands comparable to differences in average productivity across all forest biomes on Earth; (iii) productivity was predicted based on genetic marker similarity in trees; (iv) genetic-based differences in leaf phenology (early leaf-on and late leaf-fall timing) were correlated with >80% of the variation in tree and forest productivity irrespective of home-site conditions. Large differences in productivity among genotypes can result in dramatic differences in forest productivity without resulting in diversity–productivity relationships that are present in species-scale biodiversity studies.
Resistance to lettuce aphid (Nasonovia ribisnigri) biotype 0 in wild lettuce accessions PI 491093 and PI 274378. The lettuce aphid, Nasonovia ribisnigri Mosley (Hemiptera: Aphididae), is a major insect pest of lettuce, Lactuca sativa L, in many commercial lettuce production areas around the world. Resistance to lettuce aphid biotype 0 (Nr:0) was first reported in Lactuca virosa L. accession IVT 280 and characterized as complete, i.e., virtually no aphids survived, and genetically dominant to partial resistance in L. virosa accession IVT 273. Complete and partial resistances to Nr:0 were conditioned by two alleles, Nr (complete resistance) and nr (partial resistance), but the genetic relationship to susceptibility was not reported. We previously reported two new potential sources of unique genes for resistance to Nr:0 in Lactuca serriola L. accession PI 491093 and L. virosa PI 274378. We report on the genetic and phenotypic nature of resistance to Nr:0 in these two wild lettuce accessions. Resistance to Nr:0 in PI 274378 is complete and allelic to complete resistance in IVT 280. Resistance to Nr:0 in PI 491093 was partial, recessive to complete resistance in 'Barcelona' that was derived from IVT 280, but dominant to susceptibility in 'Salinas'. We propose the revised gene symbols for resistance to Nr:0: Nr:0C for complete resistance and Nr:0P for partial resistance, which was originally designated as nr but may now be regarded as the symbol for susceptibility to all strains of lettuce aphid. The dominance relationships among these three alleles are Nr:0C (in IVT 280, 'Barcelona') > Nr:0P (in PI 491093) > nr (in susceptible genotypes). Expression of partial resistance in PI 491093 was variable in controlled infestation tests, but in a naturally infested field test provided a potentially useful level of resistance to Nr:0. Partial resistance, where complete resistance has not been widely deployed, may either alone or as a component of integrated pest management delay or prevent emergence of genotypes that overcome complete resistance controlled by Nr:0C.
Histological and hematological alterations of silver catfish Rhamdia quelen highly parasitized by Lernaea cyprinacea. The main objective of this study was to evaluate the histological and hematological alterations of silver catfish Rhamdia quelen (Quoy & Gaimard, 1824) against intense parasitism by anchor worm Lernaea cyprinacea Linnaeus, 1758. Thirteen fish specimens were collected at the Fish Genetic Improvement Unit (EPAGRI/CEDAP), Brazil. After acclimatization, the fish were anesthetized for blood collection, and the samples were used for counting thrombocytes, total leukocytes, differential leukocytes and for quantification of total erythrocytes. Afterwards, the animals were euthanized, the parasites removed and quantified, and the portions of the affected tegument fixed in 10% buffered formalin. All the analyzed animals were parasitized by L. cyprinacea with mean intensity of 192 specimens per fish. The hematological profile of the animals was different from that reported for healthy fish. Immature leukocytes were the most abundant cells, followed by mono-cytes, lymphocytes, neutrophils, and periodic acid-Schiff-positive granular leukocytes. A small number of neutrophils were present in the bloodstream of parasitized fish, while histological examination evidenced the accumulation of this cell type near the place of infection by the parasite. Total leukocytes correlated significantly and positively (r = 0.6, p = 0.030) with the intensity of L. cyprinacea infection and the fish weight. Histological changes included hemorrhage, liquefactive necrosis and connective tissue disarrangement, necrosis, granulomatous inflammation, mononu-clear and polynuclear inflammation, as well as hyperplasia and hypertrophy of the alarm and mucous cells. The L. cyprinacea infection intensity caused deleterious changes both in the hematological profile and the integument of R. quelen, confirming the pathogenic potential of this parasite to the affected fish species.
Inheritance of coat colour in the German Pinscher dog. The two primary colour varieties of the German Pinscher breed are the red and the black and tan. Respectively, these are produced by the dominant yellow allele Ayand the black and tan allele atof the agouti locus. The dilute gene d is present in the breed at a low frequency and produces the rarer isabella and blue and tan colours, with the genotypes Ay-dd and atdd, respectively.
Cytochrome c peroxidase contributes to the antioxidant defense of Cryptococcus neoformans. Cryptococcus neoformans is an opportunistic pathogen and the leading cause of fungal meningitis. To survive within the host, this organism must be able to protect itself from oxidative stress. Cytochrome c peroxidase (Ccp1) is a mitochondrial antioxidant that catalyzes the degradation of hydrogen peroxide. In the present study, we characterized the contribution of the C. neoformans Ccp1 to antioxidant defense and for virulence. Consistent with studies of Ccp1 function in Sacchromyces cerevisiae, we found that Ccp1 contributes to resistance against exogenous oxidative stress in vitro. However, the oxidative stress phenotype does not diminish the virulence of ccp1 mutant strains in a murine model of C. neoformans disease. These results suggest that Ccp1 is involved in a complex system of protection against exogenous oxidative stress and that the elimination of this component of the antioxidant defense system does not diminish the virulence of C. neoformans.
How does Helicobacter pylori cause duodenal ulcer disease: The bug, the host, or both?. Abstract Helicobacter pylori infection is the most common cause of duodenal ulcer disease, yet duodenal ulcer is an uncommon outcome of H. pylori infection. We reviewed the possible explanations such as differences in the host or in the strain of H. pylori. Host factors reviewed included genetic susceptibility to H. pylori infection and excess gastric acid secretion. The role of potential H. pylori virulence factors not present in all strains such as the cagA gene and the results of other molecular methods to identify disease‐specific differences among isolates was also reviewed. Although cure of H. pylori infection resolves gastrin releasing peptide stimulated acid secretion there was no change in parietal cell mass. Twin studies have shown genetic differences in H. pylori susceptibility. There was no difference in the prevalence of the cagA gene between H. pylori infected asymptomatic volunteers and duodenal ulcer patients (P= 1.0). DNA‐DNA hybridization of whole genomic DNA in solution and cluster analysis of rep‐PCR genomic DNA fingerprints suggest that isolates from patients with duodenal ulcer disease are different from those obtained from individuals with asymptomatic gastritis. Cluster analysis of the rep‐PCR DNA fingerprints revealed two major groups of the strains; one set consisted of strains from patients with duodenal ulcer disease and the second cluster consisted largely of strains from individuals with asymptomatic gastritis. Recent molecular studies suggest that disease‐specific cell lineages or strains may exist among H. pylori isolates leading to the various outcomes observed in patients with H. pylori infection.
Tobacco root endophytic arthrobacter harbors genomic features enabling the catabolism of host-specific plant specialized metabolites. Plant roots constitute the primary interface between plants and soilborne microorganisms and harbor microbial communities called the root microbiota. Recent studies have demonstrated a significant contribution of plant specialized metabolites (PSMs) to the assembly of root microbiota. However, the mechanistic and evolutionary details underlying the PSM-mediated microbiota assembly and its contribution to host specificity remain elusive. Here, we show that the bacterial genus Arthrobacter is predominant specifically in the tobacco endosphere and that its enrichment in the tobacco endosphere is partially mediated by a combination of two unrelated classes of tobacco-specific PSMs, santhopine and nicotine. We isolated and sequenced Arthrobacter strains from tobacco roots as well as soils treated with these PSMs and identified genomic features, including but not limited to genes for santhopine and nicotine catabolism, that are associated with the ability to colonize tobacco roots. Phylogenomic and comparative analyses suggest that these genes were gained in multiple independent acquisition events, each of which was possibly triggered by adaptation to particular soil environments. Taken together, our findings illustrate a cooperative role of a combination of PSMs in mediating plant species-specific root bacterial micro-biota assembly and suggest that the observed interaction between tobacco and Arthrobacter may be a consequence of an ecological fitting process. IMPORTANCE Host secondary metabolites have a crucial effect on the taxonomic composition of its associated microbiota. It is estimated that a single plant species produces hundreds of secondary metabolites; however, whether different classes of metabolites have distinctive or common roles in the microbiota assembly remains unclear. Here, we show that two unrelated classes of secondary metabolites in tobacco play a cooperative role in the formation of tobacco-specific compositions of the root bacterial microbiota, which has been established as a consequence of independent evolutionary events in plants and bacteria triggered by different ecological effects. Our findings illustrate mechanistic and evolutionary aspects of the microbiota assembly that are mediated by an arsenal of plant secondary metabolites.
Entrapment of fluorescent signaling DNA aptamers in sol-gel-derived silica. We report on the first successful immobilization of a DNA aptamer, in particular, a fluorescence-signaling DNA aptamer, within a sol-gel-derived matrix. The specific aptamer examined in this study undergoes a structural switch in the presence of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) to release a dabcyl-labeled nucleotide strand (QDNA), which in turn relieves the quenching of a fluorescein label that is also present in the aptamer structure. It was demonstrated that aptamers containing a complementary QDNA strand along with either a short complimentary strand bearing fluorescein (tripartite structure) or a directly bound fluorescein moiety (bipartite structure) remained intact upon entrapment within biocompatible sol-gel derived materials and retained binding activity, structure-switching capabilities, and fluorescence signal generation that was selective and sensitive to ATP concentration. Studies were undertaken to evaluate the properties of the immobilized aptamers that were either in their native state or bound to streptavidin using a terminal biotin group on the aptamer, including response time, accessibility, and leaching. Furthermore, signaling abilities were optimized through evaluation of different QDNA constructs. These studies indicated that the aptamers remained in a state that was similar to solution, with moderate leaching, only minor decreases in accessibility to ATP, and an expected reduction in response time due to diffusional barriers to mass transport of the analyte through the silica matrix. Entrapment of the aptamer also resulted in protection of the DNA against degradation from nucleases, improving the potential for use of the aptamer for in vivo sensing. This work demonstrates that sol-gel-derived materials can be used to successfully immobilize and protect DNA-based biorecognition elements and, in particular, DNA aptamers, opening new possibilities for the development of DNA aptamer-based devices, such as affinity columns, microarrays, and fiber-optic sensors.
Swarming and pathogenicity of Proteus mirabilis in the urinary tract. Proteus mirabilis is best known for its pattern of swarming differentiation on agar plates, as well as for its association with the development of renal stones in patients with urinary tract infection. Urease and flagella appear to contribute most significantly to virulence, with fimbriae playing a more subtle role, whereas hemolysin does not appear to contribute significantly to pathogenesis.
Anthocyanin profile and antioxidant activity from 24 grape varieties cultivated in two Portuguese wine regions. Aims: The purpose of this work was to evaluate the general phenolic composition and the anthocyanin profile of 24 grape varieties from two Portuguese wine regions as well as their antioxidant activity in the different grape berry fractions (skins, pulps and seeds). Methods and results: Individual anthocyanin composition of grape skin extracts was analyzed by HPLC, whereas total antioxidant activity was evaluated by two methods: DPPH and ABTS. In general, a high variability was found among the different autochthonous and non-autochthonous grape varieties in relation to the polyphenolic compounds analyzed, especially the individual anthocyanins. The individual anthocyanins in grape skin extracts were mainly malvidin (1.40-7.09 mg/g of skin), in particular malvidin-3-glucoside (0.62-6.09 mg/g of skin). The highest antioxidant activity was consistently detected in the seed extracts; however, it was not possible to establish a clear difference among the grape varieties analyzed. Conclusion: High variability in polyphenolic content, individual anthocyanin composition and antioxidant activity was found among the diverse autochthonous and nonautochthonous grape varieties studied. Seeds showed the highest antioxidant activity, followed by skin and pulp, irrespective of the grape variety. Significance and impact of the study: Most vineyards in Portugal grow Portuguese cultivare of Vitis Vinifera L. and other cultivare grown worldwide. The phenolic compounds and antioxidant activity of these grape cultivare have never been characterized under the environmental conditions of the Douro and Dão regions. The variability in phenolic content among the grape varieties studied confirms the hypothesis that genetic factors have an important role in the biosynthesis of these compounds and, consequently, in the antioxidant activity of grapes.
Generic relationships of Parashorea chinensis Wang Hsie (Dipterocarpaceae) based on cpDNA sequences. The systematic position of Parashorea chinensis (Dipterocarpaceae) was investigated by using maximum parsimony analysis of nucleotide sequences of matK, trnL intron, and trnL-trnF intergenic spacer region of chloroplast DNA. Previous studies have placed the taxon in Parashorea or Shorea. Analyses indicate that P. chinensis belongs within Parashorea (80% bootstrap) rather than within Shorea. Furthermore, P. chinensis Wang Hsie and P. chinensis Wang Hsie var. kwangsiensis Lin Chi are further confirmed to be the same taxon
High-throughput, algorithmic determination of pore parameters from electron microscopy. For the determination of magnesium alloys pore parameters in electron microscopy, a powerful and flexible platform was built, which was based on machine learning and parallel algorithms. This allows one to describe porosity, pore diameter and pore spacing accurately and quantitatively. The platform performs orders of magnitude faster after recording the image acquisition process and even during image acquisition. Automated analysis can provide strong support for high-throughput characterization techniques, and improve efficiency, accuracy, and repeatability significantly compared to manual analysis. The algorithm is a promising way to calculate the porosity much more faster and efficient.
Cooperative recruitment of dynamin and BIN/Amphiphysin/Rvs (BAR) domain-containing proteins leads to GTP-dependent membrane scission. Dynamin mediates various membrane fission events, including the scission of clathrin-coated vesicles. Here, we provide direct evidence for cooperative membrane recruitment of dynamin with the BIN/amphiphysin/Rvs (BAR) proteins, endophilin and amphiphysin. Surprisingly, endophilin and amphiphysin recruitment to membranes was also dependent on binding to dynamin due to auto-inhibition of BAR-membrane interactions. Consistent with reciprocal recruitment in vitro,dynaminrecruitment to the plasma membrane in cells was strongly reduced by concomitant depletion of endophilin and amphiphysin, and conversely, depletion of dynamin dramatically reduced the recruitment of endophilin. In addition, amphiphysin depletion was observed to severely inhibit clathrin-mediated endocytosis. Furthermore, GTP-dependent membrane scission by dynamin was dramatically elevated by BAR domain proteins. Thus, BAR domain proteins and dynamin act in synergy in membrane recruitment and GTP-dependent vesicle scission.
Effect of glutamine on the growth performance, digestive enzyme activity, absorption function, and mRNA expression of intestinal transporters in heat-stressed chickens. To explore the effect of glutamine (Gln) on the growth performance, digestive enzyme activity, absorption function and mRNA expression of intestinal transporters in heat-stressed chickens, 540 21-day-old Arbor Acres broilers were randomly assigned to a control group (no stress, NS), Gln group (Chickens were administered 0.5% and 1.0% Gln, respectively), heat stress group (HT), and Gln + HT group (Chickens were administered 0.5% and 1.0% Gln, respectively). The chickens in the HT and Gln + HT groups were reared under HT (36 ± 1 °C for 10 h/d and 22 ± 1 °C for 14 h/d), for 21 days. In contrast to the NS group, heat stress caused a reduction in the body weight gain (BWG); feed intake (FI); activity of trypsin, lipase, alkaline phosphatases, Ca2+ and Mg2+ adenosine triphosphatases, and Na+-K+-ATPase; and content of glutathione and d-xylose (P < 0.05) in the other groups. In addition, compared to the F:G and expression levels in the NS group, the heat stress increased the feed intake:body weight gain (F:G) and mRNA expression levels of SGLT1, CaBP-D28k, and L-GSBP (P < 0.05). Furthermore, HT-challenged birds were pretreated with Gln, the BWG; FI; activity of trypsin, lipase, alkaline phosphatase, Ca2+ and Mg2+ adenosine triphosphatases, and Na+-K+-ATPase; and content of glutathione and d-xylose (P < 0.05) were dramatically increased, but it decreased the F:G and mRNA expression levels of SGLT1, CaBP-D28k, and L-GSBP (P < 0.05) in the HT group. In summary, Gln can effectively improve growth performance and may promote digestion and absorption in the gastrointestinal tract by mediating the mRNA expression level of nutrient transporters and Gln metabolism in heat-stressed broilers.
A new feature selection method based on feature distinguishing ability and network influence. The occurrence and development of diseases are related to the dysfunction of biomolecules (genes, metabolites, etc.) and the changes of molecule interactions. Identifying the key molecules related to the physiological and pathological changes of organisms from omics data is of great significance for disease diagnosis, early warning and drug-target prediction, etc. A novel feature selection algorithm based on the feature individual distinguishing ability and feature influence in the biological network (FS-DANI) is proposed for defining important biomolecules (features) to discriminate different disease conditions. The feature individual distinguishing ability is evaluated based on the overlapping area of the feature effective ranges in different classes. FS-DANI measures the feature network influence based on the module importance in the correlation network and the feature centrality in the modules. The feature comprehensive weight is obtained by combining the feature individual distinguishing ability and feature influence in the network. Then crucial feature subset is determined by the sequential forward search (SFS) on the feature list sorted according to the comprehensive weights of features. FS-DANI is compared with the six efficient feature selection methods on ten public omics datasets. The ablation experiment is also conducted. Experimental results show that FS-DANI is better than the compared algorithms in accuracy, sensitivity and specificity on the whole. On analyzing the gastric cancer miRNA expression data, FS-DANI identified two miRNAs (hsa-miR-18a* and hsa-miR-381), whose AUCs for distinguishing gastric cancer samples and normal samples are 0.959 and 0.879 in the discovery set and an independent validation set, respectively. Hence, evaluating biomolecules from the molecular level and network level is helpful for identifying the potential disease biomarkers of high performance.
A pathway for repair of NAD(P)H in plants. Unwanted enzyme side reactions and spontaneous decomposition of metabolites can lead to a build-up of compounds that compete with natural enzyme substrates and must be dealt with for efficient metabolism. It has recently been realized that there are enzymes that process such compounds, formulating the concept of metabolite repair. NADH and NADPH are vital cellular redox cofactors but can form non-functional hydrates (named NAD(P)HX) spontaneously or enzymatically that compete with enzymes dependent on NAD(P)H, impairing normal enzyme function. Here we report on the functional characterization of components of a potential NAD(P)H repair pathway in plants comprising a stereospecific dehydratase (NNRD) and an epimerase (NNRE), the latter being fused to a vitamin B6 salvage enzyme. Through the use of the recombinant proteins, we show that the ATP-dependentNNRDandNNREact concomitantly to restore NAD(P)HX to NAD(P)H. NNRD behaves as a tetramer andNNREas a dimer, but the proteinsdonot physically interact. In vivo fluorescence analysis demonstrates that the proteins are localized to mitochondria and/or plastids, implicating these as the key organelles where this repair is required. Expression analysis indicates that whereas NNRE is present ubiquitously, NNRD is restricted to seeds but appears to be dispensable during the normal Arabidopsis life cycle.
Conservation of epigenetic regulation, ORC binding and developmental timing of dna replication origins in the genus Drosophila. There is much interest in how DNA replication origins are regulated so that the genome is completely duplicated each cell division cycle and in how the division of cells is spatially and temporally integrated with development. In the Drosophila melanogaster ovary, the cell cycle of somatic follicle cells is modified at precise times in oogenesis. Follicle cells first proliferate via a canonical mitotic division cycle and then enter an endocycle, resulting in their polyploidization. They subsequently enter a specialized amplification phase during which only a few, select origins repeatedly initiate DNA replication, resulting in gene copy number increases at several loci important for eggshell synthesis. Here we investigate the importance of these modified cell cycles for oogenesis by determining whether they have been conserved in evolution. We find that their developmental timing has been strictly conserved among Drosophila species that have been separate for ∼40 million years of evolution and provide evidence that additional gene loci may be amplified in some species. Further, we find that the acetylation of nucleosomes and Orc2 protein binding at active amplification origins is conserved. Conservation of DNA subsequences within amplification origins from the 12 recently sequenced Drosophila species genomes implicates members of a Myb protein complex in recruiting acetylases to the origin. Our findings suggest that conserved developmental mechanisms integrate egg chamber morphogenesis with cell cycle modifications and the epigenetic regulation of origins.
Regulatory mechanism of the three-component system HptRSA in glucose-6-phosphate uptake in Staphylococcus aureus. Glucose-6-phosphate (G6P) is a common alternative carbon source for various bacteria, and its uptake usually relies on the hexose phosphate antiporter UhpT. In the human pathogenic bacterium Staphylococcus aureus, the ability to utilize different nutrients, particularly alternative carbon source uptake in glucose-limiting conditions, is essential for its fitness in the host environment during the infectious process. It has been reported that G6P uptake in S. aureus is regulated by the three-component system HptRSA. When G6P is provided as the only carbon source, HptRSA could sense extracellular G6P and activate uhpT expression to facilitate G6P utilization. However, the regulatory mechanism of HptRSA is still unclear. In this study, we further investigated the HptRSA system in S. aureus. First, we confirmed that HptRSA is necessary for the normal growth of this pathogen in chemically defined medium with G6P supplementation, and we discovered that HptRSA could exclusively sense extracellular G6P compared to the other organophosphates we tested. Next, using isothermal titration calorimetry, we found that HptA could bind to G6P, suggesting that it may be the G6P sensor. After that experiment, using an electrophoresis mobility shift assay, we verified that the response regulator HptR could directly bind to the uhpT promoter and identified a putative binding site from −67 to −96-bp. Subsequently, we created different point mutations in the putative binding site and revealed that the entire 30-bp sequence is essential for HptR regulation. In summary, we unveiled the regulatory mechanism of the HptRSA system in S. aureus, HptA most likely functions as the G6P sensor, and HptR could implement its regulatory function by directly binding to a conserved, approximately 30-bp sequence in the uhpT promoter.
QTL analysis of moderate drought response in a rye recombinant inbred line (RIL) population shows co-localization of QTLs for morphological and physiological traits. The study aimed to identify the loci responsible for some morphological traits, induced by drought in a recombinant inbred line (RIL) population of rye and to find out their connections with loci for other traits, using high density, consensus, genetic map. Twenty-five QTLs engaged in the response to drought (drought index, DI) of four morphological traits were detected. Thirteen QTLs induced by drought stress co-localized with QTLs for morphology, leaf rolling, pre-harvest sprouting (PHS), alpha-amylase activity and heading earliness. XrPt507374 from 3R was found to be the most validated marker, as the nearest one to the LOD peak of QTLs for five different traits: TGW-DI, plant height, spike length, spike compactness and PHS. Three genes were considered putative candidate genes for drought response on the basis of sequence alignment of DArTs linked to QTLs from 5R: DEAD-box ATP-dependent RNA helicase, thaumatin-like protein precursor (TLP) and transcription initiation factor TFIID.
The making of gametes in higher plants. Higher plants have evolved to be one of the predominant life forms on this planet. A great deal of this evolutionary success relies in a very short gametophytic phase which underlies the sexual reproduction cycle. Sexual plant reproduction takes place in special organs of the flower. In most species the processes of gametogenesis, pollination, syngamy and embryogenesis are sequentially coordinated to give rise to a functional seed in a matter of few weeks. Any of these processes is so intricately complex and precisely regulated that it becomes no wonder that each involves more specific genes and cellular processes than any other function in the plant life cycle. While variability generation - the evolutionary output of the sexual cycle - is the same as in any other Kingdom, plants do it using a completely original set of mechanisms, many of which are not yet comprehended. In this paper, we cover the fundamental features of male and female gametogenesis. While the physiological and cellular bases of these processes have been continuously described since the early nineteen century, recent usage of Arabidopsis and other species as central models has brought about a great deal of specific information regarding their genetic regulation. Transcriptomics has recently enlarged the repertoire and pollen became the first gametophyte to have a fully described transcriptome in plants. We thus place special emphasis on the way this newly accumulated genetic and transcriptional information impacts our current understanding of the mechanisms of gametogenesis.
GC–MS, FTIR and Raman Analysis of Antioxidant Components of Red Pigments from Stemphylium lycopersici. Many microorganisms can generate pigments with different colours and structures during the growth process. In this study, an endophytic fungus producing red pigments was isolated from Cynanchum auriculatum Royle ex Wight tissue. PCR amplification sequencing was conducted, and phylogenetic analysis was performed on the ITS region sequences. Combined with morphological observation, the fungus was identified as Stemphylium lycopersici. The antioxidant activities of the pigments were evaluated in vitro and showed good antioxidant properties. Ultraviolet (UV), Raman, and Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy and gas chromatography–mass spectroscopy (GC–MS) were used to analyse the pigments’ components, which were shown to contain phenolics and anthraquinones. Most of these components have not been previously reported in Stemphylium lycopersici, especially physcione. This study is the first report of Stemphylium lycopersici secondary metabolites and their potential use as red pigments and antioxidants. Further optimisation of the culture conditions of this fungal strain might permit its application for pigment production.
Metatranscriptomic and metabolite profiling reveals vertical heterogeneity within a Zygnema green algal mat from Svalbard (High Arctic). Within streptophyte green algae Zygnematophyceae are the sister group to the land plants that inherited several traits conferring stress protection. Zygnema sp., a mat-forming alga thriving in extreme habitats, was collected from a field site in Svalbard, where the bottom layers are protected by the top layers. The two layers were investigated by a metatranscriptomic approach and GC–MS-based metabolite profiling. In the top layer, 6569 genes were significantly upregulated and 149 were downregulated. Upregulated genes coded for components of the photosynthetic apparatus, chlorophyll synthesis, early light-inducible proteins, cell wall and carbohydrate metabolism, including starch-degrading enzymes. An increase in maltose in the top layer and degraded starch grains at the ultrastructural levels corroborated these findings. Genes involved in amino acid, redox metabolism and DNA repair were upregulated. A total of 29 differentially accumulated metabolites (out of 173 identified ones) confirmed higher metabolic turnover in the top layer. For several of these metabolites, differential accumulation matched the transcriptional changes of enzymes involved in associated pathways. In summary, the findings support the hypothesis that in a Zygnema mat the top layer shields the bottom layers from abiotic stress factors such as excessive irradiation.
'Applying speech technologies to assess verbal memory in patients with serious mental illness. Verbal memory deficits are some of the most profound neurocognitive deficits associated with schizophrenia and serious mental illness in general. As yet, their measurement in clinical settings is limited to traditional tests that allow for limited administrations and require substantial resources to deploy and score. Therefore, we developed a digital ambulatory verbal memory test with automated scoring, and repeated self-administration via smart devices. One hundred and four adults participated, comprising 25 patients with serious mental illness and 79 healthy volunteers. The study design was successful with high quality speech recordings produced to 92% of prompts (Patients: 86%, Healthy: 96%). The story recalls were both transcribed and scored by humans, and scores generated using natural language processing on transcriptions were comparable to human ratings (R = 0.83, within the range of human-to-human correlations of R = 0.73–0.89). A fully automated approach that scored transcripts generated by automatic speech recognition produced comparable and accurate scores (R = 0.82), with very high correlation to scores derived from human transcripts (R = 0.99). This study demonstrates the viability of leveraging speech technologies to facilitate the frequent assessment of verbal memory for clinical monitoring purposes in psychiatry.
Regulated expression of a novel TCP domain transcription factor indicates an involvement in the control of meristem activation processes in Solanum tuberosum. In this study, the aim was to determine whether TCP transcription factors are implicated in meristem activation in potato (Solanum tuberosum). By searching a database of potato EST sequences, with a sequence characteristically conserved in TCP domains, a potato top gene was identified. A BAC clone containing the top sequence was isolated and the genomic sequence was determined. Using a CAPS marker assay, the potato top gene (sttcp1) was mapped to chromosome 8. In dormant buds, relatively high levels of sttcp1-specific transcript were detected by in situ hybridization. By contrast, in sprouting buds, no expression of the sttcp1 could be detected. Furthermore, an inverse relationship between axillary bud size and the steady-state level of the sstcp1 transcript was demonstrated. In non-growing buds exhibiting correlative inhibition, sttcp1-specific transcript levels were also relatively high, but rapidly decreased when apical dominance was removed by excision of the apical bud.
Genetic diversity in in vitro-conserved germplasm of Curcuma L. as revealed by RAPD markers. A set of 30 accessions of five Curcuma species-C. latifolia, C. malabarica, C. manga and C. raktakanta and 13 morphotypes (identified on the basis of morphological markers) of C. longa conserved in the In Vitro Genebank at National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources, New Delhi, were subjected to RAPD analysis. Of the 200 RAPD primers screened, 21 polymorphic primers were selected for further study. Mean genetic similarities based on Jaccard's similarity coefficient ranged from 0.18 to 0.86 in accessions of cultivated species, i.e., C. longa and from 0.25 to 0.86 in wild species. The dendrogram derived from the RAPD data corroborated the morphological classification of the morphotypes. The efficiency of individual RAPD primers was also compared; primers OPC-20, OPO-06, OPC-01 and OPL-03 were adjudged highly informative in discriminating the germplasm of Curcuma.
Plant autophagy: new flavors on the menu. Autophagy mediates the delivery of cytoplasmic content to vacuoles or lysosomes for degradation or storage. The best characterized autophagy route called macroautophagy involves the sequestration of cargo in double-membrane autophagosomes and is conserved in eukaryotes, including plants. Recently, several new receptors, some of them plant-specific, that select cargo for macroautophagy have been identified. Some of these receptors appear to participate in regulation of competing catabolic pathways, for example proteasome-mediated versus autophagic degradation under specific stress conditions. Vacuolar microautophagy, a process by which the vacuole directly engulf cytoplasmic material, also occurs in plants but its underlying molecular mechanisms are yet to be elucidated.
Toxicity testing in the 21st century: A vision and a strategy. With the release of the landmark report Toxicity Testing in the 21st Century: A Vision and a Strategy, the U.S. , in 2007, precipitated a major change in the way toxicity testing is conducted. It envisions increased efficiency in toxicity testing and decreased animal usage by transitioning from current expensive and lengthy in vivo testing with qualitative endpoints to in vitro toxicity pathway assays on human cells or cell lines using robotic high-throughput screening with mechanistic quantitative parameters. Risk assessment in the exposed human population would focus on avoiding significant perturbations in these toxicity pathways. Computational systems biology models would be implemented to determine the dose-response models of perturbations of pathway function. Extrapolation of in vitro results to in vivo human blood and tissue concentrations would be based on pharmacokinetic models for the given exposure condition. This practice would enhance human relevance of test results, and would cover several test agents, compared to traditional toxicological testing strategies. As all the tools that are necessary to implement the vision are currently available or in an advanced stage of development, the key prerequisites to achieving this paradigm shift are a commitment to change in the scientific community, which could be facilitated by a broad discussion of the vision, and obtaining necessary resources to enhance current knowledge of pathway perturbations and pathway assays in humans and to implement computational systems biology models. Implementation of these strategies would result in a new toxicity testing paradigm firmly based on human biology.
Autonomous expression of the nic1 acetylcholine receptor mutation in zebrafish muscle cells. The nic1b107 (nic1) mutation blocks expression of both functional and clustered acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) in zebrafish muscle. Normally, signaling between motoneurons and muscles regulates AChR clustering. To learn if signaling is affected and to identify the primary cellular target of the nic1 mutation, we made mosaic embryos by transplanting motoneurons and muscle precursors from wild-type to mutant embryos. Genotypically mutant muscle cells fail to cluster AChRs even when contacted by wild-type motoneurons, whereas genotypically mutant motoneurons induce AChR clustering on wild-type muscle cells. Moreover, mutant muscle cells fail to cluster AChRs under culture conditions that induce AChR clustering on wild-type cells. We conclude that the nic1 mutation acts autonomously in muscle cells rather than by affecting signaling between motoneurons and muscle. The wild-type nic1 gene is necessary in muscle for expression and clustering of AChRs.
The flavonoid biosynthetic enzyme chalcone isomerase modulates terpenoid production in glandular trichomes of tomato. Flavonoids and terpenoids are derived from distinct metabolic pathways but nevertheless serve complementary roles in mediating plant interactions with the environment. Here, we show that glandular trichomes of the anthocyanin free (af) mutant of cultivated tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) fail to accumulate both flavonoids and terpenoids. This pleiotropic metabolic deficiency was associated with loss of resistance to native populations of coleopteran herbivores under field conditions. We demonstrate that Af encodes an isoform (SlCHI1) of the flavonoid biosynthetic enzyme chalcone isomerase (CHI), which catalyzes the conversion of naringenin chalcone to naringenin and is strictly required for flavonoid production in multiple tissues of tomato. Expression of the wild-type SlCHI1 gene from its native promoter complemented the anthocyanin deficiency in af. Unexpectedly, the SlCHI1 transgene also complemented the defect in terpenoid production in glandular trichomes. Our results establish a key role for SlCHI1 in flavonoid production in tomato and reveal a link between CHI1 and terpenoid production. Metabolic coordination of the flavonoid and terpenoid pathways may serve to optimize the function of trichome glands in dynamic environments.
Analysis of the microbial communities on corroded concrete sewer pipes - A case study. Conventional as well as molecular techniques have been used to determine the microbial communities present on the concrete walls of sewer pipes. The genetic fingerprint of the microbiota on corroded concrete sewer pipes was obtained by means of denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) of 16S rRNA gene fragments. The DGGE profiles of the bacterial communities present on the concrete surface changed as observed by shifts occurring at the level of the dominance of bands from non-corroded places to the most severely corroded places. By means of statistical tools, it was possible to distinguish two different groups, corresponding to the microbial communities on corroded and non-corroded surfaces, respectively. Characterization of the microbial communities indicated that the sequences of typical bands showed the highest level of identity to sequences from the bacterial strains Thiobacillus thiooxidans, Acidithio-bacillus sp., Mycobacterium sp. and different heterotrophs belonging to the α-, β- and γ-Proteobacteria, Acidobacteria and Actinobacteria. In addition, the presence of N-acyl-homoserine lactone signal molecules was shown by two bio-assays of the biofilm on the concrete under the water level and at the most severely corroded places on the concrete surface of the sewer pipe.
GmTDN1 improves wheat yields by inducing dual tolerance to both drought and low-N stress. Genetically enhancing drought tolerance and nutrient use efficacy enables sustainable and stable wheat production in drought-prone areas exposed to water shortages and low soil fertility, due to global warming and declining natural resources. In this study, wheat plants, exhibiting improved drought tolerance and N-use efficacy, were developed by introducing GmTDN1, a gene encoding a DREB-like transcription factor, into two modern winter wheat varieties, cv Shi4185 and Jimai22. Overexpressing GmTDN1 in wheat resulted in significantly improved drought and low-N tolerance under drought and N-deficient conditions in the greenhouse. Field trials conducted at three different locations over a period of 2–3 consecutive years showed that both Shi4185 and Jimai22 GmTDN1 transgenic lines were agronomically superior to wild-type plants, and produced significantly higher yields under both drought and N-deficient conditions. No yield penalties were observed in these transgenic lines under normal well irrigation conditions. Overexpressing GmTDN1 enhanced photosynthetic and osmotic adjustment capacity, antioxidant metabolism, and root mass of wheat plants, compared to those of wild-type plants, by orchestrating the expression of a set of drought stress-related genes as well as the nitrate transporter, NRT2.5. Furthermore, transgenic wheat with overexpressed NRT2.5 can improve drought tolerance and nitrogen (N) absorption, suggesting that improving N absorption in GmTDN1 transgenic wheat may contribute to drought tolerance. These findings may lead to the development of new methodologies with the capacity to simultaneously improve drought tolerance and N-use efficacy in cereal crops to ensure sustainable agriculture and global food security.
Characterization of the mitochondrial genome of the diamondback moth plutella xylostella (Lepidoptera: Plutellidae) and phylogenetic analysis of advanced moths and butterflies. Here we determined the mitochondrial genome sequence of a notorious pest, the diamondback moth Plutella xylostella (Lepidoptera: Yponomeutoidea: Plutellidae). The mitochondrial genome contains 37 typical animal mitochondrial genes and an A+T-rich region. The gene arrangement is identical to that of other ditrysian lepidopteran mitochondrial genomes, but different from the ancestral gene arrangement in the non-ditrysian Hepialidae of Lepidoptera. The start codon of the cox1 gene is CGA, which is dissimilar to its homologs in most other insects. In Lepidoptera, cox1 and cox2 have low nucleotide diversities, while the nad6, nad2, and nad3 genes are highly variable. Phylogenetic analyses uncovered the reciprocal monophyly of Ditrysia, Apoditrysia, Obtectomera, and Macrolepidoptera, and the placement of the Hesperiidae within Papilionoidea. Our analyses suggest that the complete mitochondrial genome sequences are a promising marker toward fully resolving the phylogenetic relationships within Lepidoptera.
Prevalence and Molecular Characterization of Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus from Nasal Specimens: Overcoming MRSA with Silver Nanoparticles and Their Applications. Staphylococcus aureus is a cause of high mortality in humans and therefore it is necessary to prevent its transmission and reduce infections. Our goals in this research were to investigate the frequency of methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA) in Taif, Saudi Arabia, and assess the relationship between the phenotypic antimicrobial sensitivity patterns and the genes responsible for resistance. In addition, we examined the antimicrobial efficiency and application of silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) against MRSA isolates. Seventy-two nasal swabs were taken from patients; MRSA was cultivated on Mannitol Salt Agar supplemented with methicillin, and 16S rRNA sequencing was conducted in addition to morphological and biochemical identification. Specific resistance genes such as ermAC, aacA-aphD, tetKM, vatABC and mecA were PCR-amplified and resistance plasmids were also investigated. The MRSA incidence was ~49 % among the 72 S. aureus isolates and all MRSA strains were resistant to oxacillin, penicillin, and cefoxitin. However, vancomycin, linezolid, teicoplanin, mupirocin, and rifampicin were effective against 100% of MRSA strains. About 61% of MRSA strains exhibited multidrug resistance and were resistant to 3-12 antimicrobial medications (MDR). Methicillin resistance gene mecA was presented in all MDR-MRSA strains. Most MDR-MRSA contained a plasmid of > 10 kb. To overcome bacterial resistance, AgNPs were applied and displayed high antimicrobial activity and synergistic effect with penicillin. Our findings may help establish programs to control bacterial spread in communities as AgNPs appeared to exert a synergistic effect with penicillin to control bacterial resistance.
Formation of branched DNA structures by Xenopus laevis oocyte extract. WE have reported that a soluble cell-free extract from stage 6 oocytes of Xenopus laevis can act on supercoiled SV40 DNA to produce molecules with a single-strand scission, linear molecules of full length, shorter fragments and various forms of complex DNA1. The complex DNA consisted of various structures, such as figure-of-eight dimers, catenated dimers, circular dimers, catenated trimers, late Cairns' structures, complex multimers and circular monomers with tails. The few late Cairns' structures observed could have been due to replication, but it is possible that they and the other forms of complex DNA resulted from recombination among SV40 DNA molecules. We thought that fractionation of the extract should produce fractions lacking some of the activities necessary to produce complex DNA, so that intermediate structures would accumulate. We now report that some fractions of the extract produce a high percentage of branched DNA structures from SV40 DNA, and we describe the requirements and characteristics of this reaction. We also discuss the possibility that branched DNA is an intermediate in the formation of complex DNA.
Rapid one-step protein purification from plant material using the eight-amino acid StrepII epitope. Beyond the rewards of plant genome analysis and gene identification, characterisation of protein activities, post-translational modifications and protein complex composition remains a challenge for plant biologists. Ideally, methods should allow rapid isolation of proteins from plant material achieving a high degree of purity. We tested three purification strategies based on the eight-amino acid StrepII, six-amino acid His6 and 181-amino acid Tandem Affinity Purification (TAP) affinity tags for enrichment of a membrane-anchored protein kinase, NtCDPK2, and a soluble protein, AtSGT1b, from leaf extracts. Transiently expressed StrepII-tagged NtCDPK2 was purified from Nicotiana benthamiana to almost complete homogeneity in less than 60 min and was directly suitable for enzymatic or mass-spectrometric analyses, allowing the identification of in planta phosphorylation sites. In contrast, purification of NtCDPK2 via His6 tag yielded partially oxidised protein of low purity. AtSGT1b could be isolated after transient expression from N. benthamiana or from transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana as either TAP-tagged or StrepII-tagged protein. While StrepII-tag purification achieved similar yield and high purity as the TAP-tag strategy, it was considerably easier and faster. Using either tagging strategy, a protein was co-purified with AtSGT1b from N. benthaniana and A. thaliana leaf extracts, suggesting that both the StrepII and TAP tags are suitable for purification of protein complexes from plant material. We propose that the StrepII epitope, in particular, may serve as a generally utilizable tag to further our understanding of protein functions, post-translational modifications and interaction dynamics in plants.
Two DNA barcodes and morphology for multi-method species delimitation in Bonnetina tarantulas (Araneae: Theraphosidae). Determining species boundaries is a central debate in biology. Several recently developed molecular delimitation methods have highlighted extensive inconsistency in classical morphological taxonomy. However, choosing between them is contentious. Molecular studies on theraphosid spiders have found considerable cryptic diversity and many species redundantly described. Most of these studies have relied only on COI, a mitochondrial marker that has proven its efficacy in animal studies, but which also might lead to an over-estimation of diversity.Here we present an integrative approach to species delimitation in Bonnetina, a poorly known group of tarantulas endemic to Mexico. We employed morphological evidence, as well as different setups with distance-based (Hard-Gap barcoding and ABGD) and tree-based (GMYC, PTP and BPP) molecular barcoding approaches, using one mitochondrial (COI) and one nuclear (ITS1) rapidly evolving loci. BPP is also used as a multi-locus method. We also explored the influence of ambiguous alignment choice and of coding gaps as characters in phylogenetic inference and in species delimitation with that marker.Different delimitation methods with COI gave moderately variable results and this gene exhibited a universal barcode gap. The ITS1 gene tree was well supported and robust to alignment choice; with this locus, coding gaps improved branch support and species delimitation with PTP. No universal barcode gap was found with ITS1, and single locus delimitations returned disparate results. However, this locus helped to highlight cases of under- and overestimations by COI. BPP gave solutions with many lineages, in single locus and combined analyses, especially with the recently implemented unguided methodology. We recognize 12 robustly supported species in our data set, of which seven remain undescribed, and three are morphologically cryptic. For COI Bonnetina species identification, we propose intra- and inter-specific thresholds of 2% and 6% sequence divergence, respectively.We conclude that morphological signal for species delimitation in Bonnetina is higher than for other studied tarantulas, but it fails to recognize several lineages in the genus. COI is a functional barcoding marker, and the most reliable source of evidence that we used, but it may also lead to inaccurate delimitations. ITS1 is a highly informative locus for species delimitation and species-level phylogeny, but it performs poorly as a barcoding marker. Due to variability between delimitation methods, we suggest combining evidence from multiple approaches to get better-supported results.
Classification and prediction of toxicity of chemicals using an automated phenotypic profiling of Caenorhabditis elegans. Background: Traditional toxicological studies have relied heavily on various animal models to understand the effect of various compounds in a biological context. Considering the great cost, complexity and time involved in experiments using higher order organisms. Researchers have been exploring alternative models that avoid these disadvantages. One example of such a model is the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. There are some advantages of C. elegans, such as small size, short life cycle, well defined genome, ease of maintenance and efficient reproduction. Methods: As these benefits allow large scale studies to be initiated with relative ease, the problem of how to efficiently capture, organize and analyze the resulting large volumes of data must be addressed. We have developed a new method for quantitative screening of chemicals using C. elegans. 33 features were identified for each chemical treatment. Results: The compounds with different toxicities were shown to alter the phenotypes of C. elegans in distinct and detectable patterns. We found that phenotypic profiling revealed conserved functions to classify and predict the toxicity of different chemicals. Conclusions: Our results demonstrate the power of phenotypic profiling in C. elegans under different chemical environments.
Single-strand-binding factor(s) which interact with ARS1 of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Since plasmids containing autonomously replicating sequence(s) (ARS) can transform Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells at high frequency, ARS are considered to be the replicanion origins of chromosomes. To study the mechanism of initiation of eukaryotic chromosomal replication, we examined protein factors which interact with the ARSI region located near the centromere of chromosome IV in S. cervisiiae. Using the gel-shift assay, we found protein factors which bound to a single-stranded, 97-bp fragment of the ARSI region containing the core consensus. Competition experiments with various oligodeoxyribonucleotides (oligos) suggest that a site recognized by the factor(s) was within the element containing the core consensus and adjacent close matches to the core consensus of the minus strand. Indeed, when the oligo containing the minus strand of this element was used as a probe, two oligo-protein complexes were detected. Mutations in the core consensus reduced these binding activities. When the plus-strand oligo of the same region was used as a probe, a retarded band was also detected, but with less specific binding. Considering the fact that the core consensus and close matches to the core consensus are important for ARS function, these results imply that the protein factors detected in this experiment may participate in DNA replication.
Contributors to and consequences of burnout among clinical genetic counselors in the United States. Prior research has found that many genetic counselors (GCs) experience burnout. Studies of other clinicians have demonstrated that burnout can have significant detrimental consequences for clinicians, patients, and the healthcare system. We sought to explore the prevalence of, contributors to, and consequences of burnout among GCs. We performed a secondary data analysis of baseline data from Me-GC, a randomized controlled trial of meditation for GCs. We applied a systems model of burnout proposed by the National Academy of Medicine (NAM), which depicts burnout arising from a combination of contributors that include both work system and individual mediating factors, and then leading to consequences. Validated self-report scales were used to measure burnout and most contributors and consequences. Female and white GCs were over-represented in our sample. Over half (57.2%) of the 397 participants had Professional Fulfillment Index scores indicative of burnout. Multiple potential contributors were associated with burnout, consistent with its known multifactorial nature. Among work system factors, higher levels of burnout were associated with insufficient administrative support, lack of autonomy, and not feeling valued by non-GC colleagues. Individual mediating factors associated with greater burnout included higher levels of anxiety, depression, and stress. Participants with lower levels of burnout reported greater mindfulness, resilience, and use of professional self-care behaviors. Among variables categorized as consequences, higher levels of burnout were associated with lower levels of empathy, counseling alliance, and positive unconditional regard, as well as higher reactive distress, and a greater desire to reduce the amount of time spent on clinical care. Given the prevalence and potential consequences of burnout observed here, it is imperative that the field take steps to mitigate burnout risk.
Optimization of train nose shape for reducing micro-pressure wave radiated from tunnel exit. When a compression wave generated by a high-speed train entering a tunnel propagates through the tunnel and arrives at the tunnel exit, an impulsive pressure wave (micro-pressure wave) is radiated from the tunnel exit. Improving the train nose shape is one of the techniques for suppressing the micro-pressure wave. Furthermore, tunnel entrance hoods are required for long concrete slab tunnels in order to suppress the micro-pressure wave. The effect of the tunnel entrance hood on the compression wave generated by the train can be evaluated by means of a rapid computational scheme devised and validated experimentally by Howe  In this study, the optimal longitudinal distribution of the cross-sectional area of the train nose shape was determined by using the rapid computational scheme and a genetic algorithm. The effect of the nose shape optimization was confirmed through experiments using scale models.
Hemolysin and K antigens in relation to serotype and hemagglutination type of Escherichia coli isolated from extraintestinal infections. Escherichia coli isolated from cases of bacteremia and from a variety of urinary tract infections were characterized according to serotype (O:H antigenicity), K type (possession of K1, K2, K3, K12, or K13), hemagglutination (HA) type, and production of beta-hemolysin. Results obtained with the bacteremia and urinary tract infection isolates were similar except for more hemolytic isolates from urine than from blood (42 versus 29%) and more K1+ isolates from blood than from urine (50 versus 29%). A close correlation was found between HA type VI (production of fimbriae which mediate mannose-resistant HA of human and African green monkey erythrocytes) and the production of hemolysin or K1 capsular antigen or both. Most (95 of 98, or 95%) of the HA type VI+ blood isolates and most (146 of 164, or 89%) of the HA type VI+ urine isolates produced hemolysin or K1 or both, in contrast to 22 and 26%, respectively, of those belonging to HA types other than HA type VI. Also, 76% of all hemolytic and 70% of all K1+ isolates belonged to HA type VI. Remarkably few of the HA type VI+ isolates (13%) and even fewer of the HA type VI- isolates (3%) produced both K1 and hemolysin; these belonged mainly to serotypes O16:H6, O18:H7, and O2:H4. Other major serogroups were usually K1+/hemolysin- (O1, O7) or K1-/hemolysin+ (O2, O4, O6). At least 74% (262 of 351) and possibly as many as 83% (293 of 351) of those isolates which produced mannose-resistant HA of human erythrocytes were classified as HA type VI+; 31 isolates produced mannose-resistant HA with all erythrocytes tested. Taking serogroup and serotype into consideration, we conclude that the E. coli fimbrial hemagglutinin(s) responsible for the HA type VI phenotype will prove to be the same as the virulence-associated mannose-resistant adhesins of uropathogenic E. coli which other investigators have characterized as unique fimbrial antigens detectable by mannose-resistant HA of human erythrocytes.
Transcriptional modulation of penicillin-binding protein 1b, outer membrane protein P2 and efflux pump (AcrAB-TolC) during heat stress is correlated to enhanced bactericidal action of imipenem on non-typeable Haemophilus influenzae. Objective: The purpose of the present study was to investigate the penicillin binding proteins (PBPs), drug influx and efflux modulations during heat stress and their effects on the bactericidal action of imipenem on non-typeable Haemophilus influenzae (NTHi). Methods: The two NTHi clinical isolates (GE47 and GE88, imipenem MICs by E-test > 32 μg/mL) examined in this study were collected at Geneva University Hospitals. The imipenem killing activity was assessed after incubation of the NTHi strains at either 37 or 42°C for 3 h with increasing concentrations of imipenem. The detection of PBPs was carried out by Bocillin-FL. Global transcriptional changes were monitored by RNA-seq after pre-incubation of bacterial cells at either 37 or 42°C, and the expression levels of relevant target genes were confirmed by qRT-PCR. Results: Quantitation of NTHi viable cells after incubation with 0.25 μg/mL of imipenem for 3 h revealed more than a twofold decrease in GE47 and GE88 viable cells at 42°C as compared to 37°C. Transcriptome analysis showed that under heat stress conditions, there were 141 differentially expressed genes with a | log2(fold change)| > 1, including 67 up-regulated and 74 down-regulated genes. The expression levels of ponB (encoding PBP1b) and acrR (regulator of AcrAB-TolC efflux pump) were significantly increased at 42°C. In contrast, the transcript levels of ompP2 (encoding the outer membrane protein P2) and acrB gene (encoding AcrB) were significantly lower under heat stress condition. Conclusion: This study shows that the transcriptional modulation of ponB, ompP2, acrR, and acrB in the heat stress response is correlated to enhanced antimicrobial effects of imipenem on non-typeable H. influenzae.
Micropropagation of newly produced F1 hybrid of Eucalyptus (E. tereticornis Sm. X E. camaldulensis Dehn. Southern form). A new F1 interspecific controlled hybrid of Eucalyptus tereticornis X Eucalyptus camaldulensis (Southern form) was produced during March, 1996 which showed hybrid vigour. Since de novo production of F1 seed for raising F1 plantation is not feasible, cumbersome and labour intensive, thus, an innovative and effective approach to multiply this hybrid via tissue culture was applied to check segregation, retain hybrid vigour and evolve a protocol for mass clonal multiplication.
Identification of potassium phosphite responsive miRNAs and their targets in potato. Micro RNAs (miRNAs) are small single strand non-coding RNAs that regulate gene expression at the post-transcriptional level, either by translational inhibition or mRNA degradation based on the extent of complementarity between the miRNA and its target mRNAs. Potato (Solanum tuberosum L.) is the most important horticultural crop in Argentina. Achieving an integrated control of diseases is crucial for this crop, where frequent agrochemical applications, particularly fungicides, are carried out. A promising strategy is based on promoting induced resistance through the application of environmentally friendly compounds such as phosphites, inorganic salts of phosphorous acid. The use of phosphites in disease control management has proven to be effective. Although the mechanisms underlying their effect remain unclear, we postulated that miRNAs could be involved. Therefore we performed next generation sequencing (NGS) in potato leaves treated and non treated with potassium phosphite (KPhi). We identified 25 miRNAs that were expressed differentially, 14 already annotated in miRBase and 11 mapped to the potato genome as potential new miRNAs. A prediction of miRNA targets showed genes related to pathogen resistance, transcription factors, and oxidative stress. We also analyzed in silico stress and phytohormone responsive cis-acting elements on differentially expressed pre miRNAs. Despite the fact that some of the differentially expressed miRNAs have been already identified, this is to our knowledge the first report identifying miRNAs responsive to a biocompatible stress resistance inducer such as potassium phosphite, in plants. Further characterization of these miRNAs and their target genes might help to elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying KPhi-induced resistance.
Research progress on optimizing panicle characters and quality improvement of indica pedigree in northern japonica rice. Since the Eleventh Five Year Plan began, the northern japonica rice breeding team, headed by the Rice Research Institute of Shenyang Agricultural University, has undertaken an effort to improve the quality of northern japonica rice, with particular attention to panicle traits and regulating the indica pedigree. Remarkable progress has been made in the elucidation of the genetic and physiological basis of important agronomic traits, germplasm resource innovation, and the breeding of new varieties. (1) We found that erect panicle architecture is controlled by a dominant allele of EP1, which produces the shortened internode of the panicle, increases both the number of grains per panicle and the seed density, and eventually affects overall appearance and milling quality while improving the yield characters. We also found that the introgression of indica pedigree improved the yield potential of japonica rice, though there was a detectable quality penalty, especially in eating and cooking quality. (2) We proposed a model of ideal panicle architecture and identified effective selection indicators including panicle curvature, panicle type index, vascular bundle efficiency, primary branch efficiency, and indica pedigree introgression percentage. On this basis, we established the quantitative parameters for ideal panicle type of japonica rice in northern China (neck panicle curvature < 40°, panicle type index > 0.50, vascular bundle efficiency ≥ 0.75, primary branch efficiency ≈ 1.0, number of primary branches ≥ 15, brown rice rate ≥ 83%, head rice rate ≥ 68%, chalky rice rate ≤ 10%, taste value ≥ 80, the indica pedigree introgression at about 10%) to coordinate the balance between yield and quality, especially eating quality. (3) We have systematically summarized the results of our research, and we developed a strong theory for the improvement of the quality and technical systems of northern japonica rice by optimizing panicle traits and indica pedigree introgression. We first selected elite offspring derived from the cross between indica and japonica, and then backcrossed or double-crossed them with high-quality, high-yield japonica germplasm resources, optimized the eating and cooking quality using a directional selection of indica pedigree introgression, and narrowed the gap between superior and inferior grains through the increase in the number of panicle neck vascular bundles and primary branches to realize the synchronous improvement of milling, appearance, and eating and cooking quality on the basis of maintaining the grain yield. This research has led to a 16.60% increase in the per unit yield of japonica rice in northeastern China and a 96.88% increase in cultivation area since the beginning of the 21st century. The proportion of total yield in the country has increased from 9.51% to 17.91%, indicating a synchronous and significant improvement of cultivation area per unit yield, and grain quality. In this paper, we also discuss existing problems and directions for the development of related fields.
Dedicated Herbaceous Biomass Feedstock Genetics and Development. Biofuels and bio-based products can be produced from a wide variety of herbaceous feedstocks. To supply enough biomass to meet the needs of a new bio-based economy, a suite of dedicated biomass species must be developed to accommodate a range of growing environments throughout the USA. Researchers from the US Department of Agriculture’s Agricultural Research Service (USDA-ARS) and collaborators associated with the USDA Regional Biomass Research Centers have made major progress in understanding the genetics of switchgrass, sorghum, and other grass species and have begun to use this knowledge to develop new cultivars with high yields and appropriate traits for efficient conversion to bio-based products. Plant geneticists and breeders have discovered genes that reduce recalcitrance for biochemical conversion to ethanol and drop-in fuels. Progress has also been made in finding genes that improve production under biotic and abiotic stress from diseases, pests, and climatic variations.
Expression and Function Analysis of Interleukin-17A/F1, 2, and 3 Genes in Yellow Catfish (Pelteobagrus fulvidraco): Distinct Bioactivity of Recombinant IL-17A/F1, 2, and 3. In mammals, Interleukin-17 cytokine family plays critical roles in both acute and chronic inflammatory responses. In fish species, three Interleukin-17A/F (IL-17A/F) genes have been identified to be homologous to mammalian IL-17A and IL-17F, but little is known about their functional activity. In this study, Pf_IL-17A/F1, 2 and 3 genes were cloned from yellow catfish (Pelteobagrus fulvidraco) and they differed in protein structure and exon length, implying that they may have divergent bioactivity. Real-time quantitative PCR analyses revealed that three Pf_IL-17A/F genes were highly expressed in blood and mucosal tissues (skin+mucus and gill) from healthy adult fish. The mRNA expressions of Pf_IL-17A/F1, 2 and 3 genes were significantly up-regulated in the gill, skin+mucus, head kidney and spleen after challenge with Edwardsiella ictaluri and in the isolated peripheral blood leucocytes (PBLs) of yellow catfish after stimulation with phytohaemagglutinin (PHA), lipopolysaccharides (LPS), peptidoglycan (PGN) and polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid (Poly I:C). These results indicate that Pf_IL-17A/F1, 2 and 3 genes may play a vital role in the regulation of immune against pathogens. Additionally, the recombinant (r) Pf_IL-17A/F1, 2 and 3 proteins significantly induced the mRNA expressions of proinflammatory cytokines, chemokines and antibacterial peptides genes, and the rPf_IL-17A/F 2 and 3 proteins promoted phagocytosis of PBLs more powerfully than the rPf_IL-17A/F1. Furthermore, the rPf_IL-17A/F1, 2 and 3 proteins might activate the NF-κB and MAPK signal pathways by IL-17RA, ACT1, TRAF6, TRAF2, TRAF5 and TAK1, indicating that the three Pf_IL-17A/F proteins may play different roles in promoting inflammatory response.
VirD4-independent transformation by CloDF13 evidences an unknown factor required for the genetic colonization of plants via Agrobacterium. Agrobacterium uses a mechanism similar to conjugation for trans-kingdom transfer of its oncogenic T-DNA. A defined VirB/VirD4 Type IV secretion system is responsible for such a genetic transfer. In addition, certain virulence proteins as VirE2 can be mobilized into host cells by the same apparatus. VirE2 is essential to achieve plant but not yeast transformation. We found that the limited host range plasmid CloDF13 can be recruited by the virulence apparatus of Agrobacterium for transfer to eukaryotic hosts. As expected the VirB transport complex was required for such trans-kingdom DNA transfer. However, unexpectedly, the coupling factor VirD4 turned out to be necessary for transfer to plants but not for transport into yeast. The CloDF13 encoded coupling factor (Mob) was essential for transfer to both plants and yeast though. This is interpreted by the different specificities of Mob and VirD4. Hence, Mob being required for the transport of the CloDF13 transferred DNA (to both plants and yeast) and VirD4 being required for transport of virulence proteins such as VirE2. Nevertheless, the presence of the VirE2 protein in the host plant was not sufficient to restore the deficiency for VirD4 in the transforming bacteria. We propose that Mob functions encoded by the plasmid CloDF13 are sufficient for DNA mobilization to eukaryotic cells but that the VirD4-mediated pathway is essential to achieve DNA nuclear establishment specifically in plants. This suggests that other Agrobacterium virulence proteins besides VirE2 are translocated and essential for plant transformation.
Homologues of wheat ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes - TaUBC1 and TaUBC4 are encoded by small multigene families in Arabidopsis thaliana. Covalent attachment of ubiquitin to other cellular proteins has been implicated in a multitude of diverse physiological processes in eukaryotes including selective protein degradation. This attachment is carried out by a multi-enzyme pathway consisting of three classes of enzymes: ubiquitin-activating enzymes (E1s), ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes (E2s), and ubiquitin-protein ligases (E3s). E2s accept activated ubiquitin from E1 and conjugate it to target proteins with or without the participation of specific E3s. Previously, we have isolated wheat cDNAs encoding 16 and 23 kDa E2s, TaUBC1 and TaUBC4, respectively. TaUBC1 shows structural homology to the yeast RAD6 E2 that is essential for DNA repair whereas TaUBC4 is related to the yeast ScUBC8 E2, both of which effectively conjugate ubiquitin to histones in vitro but as yet are without a known in vivo function. Here, we report the isolation of genomic and cDNA homologues of these genes from Arabidopsis thaliana. In Arabidopsis, both of these E2s are encoded by three member gene families. Members of the AtUBC1 gene family, comprising AtUBC1, 2 and 3, encode 150-152 amino acid proteins that are 83-99% identical to each other and TaUBC1 and contain four introns that are conserved with respect to position. Members of the AtUBC4 gene family, comprising AtUBC4, 5 and 6, encode 187-191 amino acid proteins that are 73-88% identical to each other and TaUBC4 and contain five introns that are conserved with respect to position. In contrast, AtUBC1-3 gene products are only 31-36% identical to those derived from AtUBC4-6. mRNA for each family was detected in Arabidopsis roots, leaves, stems, and flowers indicating that members of each family are expressed in most if not all tissues.
Genome-wide association study of heading and flowering dates and construction of its prediction equation in Chinese common wheat. Heading date is one of the most important traits in wheat breeding as it affects adaptation and yield potential. A genome-wide association study (GWAS) using the 90\xa0K iSelect SNP genotyping assay indicated that a total of 306 loci were significantly associated with heading and flowering dates in 13 environments in Chinese common wheat from the Yellow and Huai wheat region. Of these, 105 loci were significantly correlated with both heading and flowering dates and were found in clusters on chromosomes 2, 5, 6, and 7. Based on differences in distribution of the vernalization and photoperiod genes among chromosomes, arms, or block regions, 13 novel, environmentally stable genetic loci were associated with heading and flowering dates, including RAC875_c41145_189 on 1DS, RAC875_c50422_299 on 2BL, and RAC875_c48703_148 on 2DS, that accounted for more than 20% phenotypic variance explained (PVE) of the heading/flowering date in at least four environments. GWAS and t test of a combination of SNPs and vernalization and photoperiod alleles indicated that the Vrn-B1, Vrn-D1, and Ppd-D1 genes significantly affect heading and flowering dates in Chinese common wheat. Based on the association of heading and flowering dates with the vernalization and photoperiod alleles at seven loci and three significant SNPs, optimal linear regression equations were established, which show that of the seven loci, the Ppd-D1 gene plays the most important role in modulating heading and flowering dates in Chinese wheat, followed by Vrn-B1 and Vrn-D1. Additionally, three novel genetic loci (RAC875_c41145_189, Excalibur_c60164_137, and RAC875_c50422_299) also show important effect on heading and flowering dates. Therefore, Ppd-D1, Vrn-B1, Vrn-D1, and the novel genetic loci should be further investigated in terms of improving heading and flowering dates in Chinese wheat. Further quantitative analysis of an F 10 recombinant inbred lines population identified a major QTL that controls heading and flowering dates within the Ppd-D1 locus with PVEs of 28.4% and 34.0%, respectively; this QTL was also significantly associated with spike length, peduncle length, fertile spikelets number, cold resistance, and tiller number.
Antioxidant capacity of several Iranian, wild and cultivated strains of the button mushroom. The white button mushroom, Agaricus bisporus, is the most commonly grown mushroom in Iran; however, there is a significant shortage of research on its antioxidant activity and other medicinal properties. The aim of this study was to evaluate antioxidant capacity of the methanolic extracts from four cultivated strains and four Internal Transcribed Spacer (ITS)-identified, Iranian wild isolates of A. bisporus. Evaluations were made for total phenols, flavonoids and anthocyanins, and 2, 2-diphenyl- 1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) scavenging activity. Overall, results showed that all the wild isolates exhibited significantly lower DPPH-derived EC50, compared to the cultivated strains (p < 0.05). A relatively high relationship was observed between total phenols and flavonoids or anthocyanins (r2 > 0.60). However, these constituents could not statistically differentiate the group of wild samples from the cultivated ones, and there was low correlation with the DPPH-derived EC50s (r2 < 0.40). In conclusion, comparisons showed that wild isolate 4 and cultivated strains A15 and H1 had higher antioxidant capacity than the others (p < 0.05). This result identifies these mushrooms as good candidates for further investigation.
Variability in indian mustard (Brassica juncea) genotypes in response to applied phosphorus. A field study was conducted during the winter season (rabi) 2012–13 at Ludhiana, Punjab, to identify the phos-phorus-efficient genotypes of Indian mustard [Brassica juncea (L.) Czernj. & Cosson]. Application of 15 kg/ha of P2O5 increased the seed yield by 6.8% and stover yield by 8.5% over the control, whereas the increase with 30 kg/ ha of P2O5 over 15 kg/ha of P2O5 was non-significant. The increase in oil content and P uptake at maturity with successive dose of phosphorus was also significant. Among genotypes, ‘NRCHB 101’ with the highest seed (1.91 t/ ha) and stover (7.29 t/ha) yields outyielded all the other tested genotypes by significant margin of 6.7–30.8% for seed yield and 9.0–30.9% for stover yield. Genotype ‘NRCDR 2’ registered significantly higher oil content (40.2%), while ‘NRCHB 101’ registered significantly higher total phosphorus uptake at maturity (21.52 kg/ha). Interactions between doses of phosphorus and genotypes for all the parameters were found non-significant.
Evolution of codon usage and base contents in kinetoplastid protozoans. In this study we analyze and compare the trends in codon usage in five representative species of kinetoplastid protozoans (Crithidia fasciculata, Leishmania donovani, L. major, Trypanosoma cruzi and T. brucei), with the purpose of investigating the processes underlying these trends. A principal component analysis shows that the G + C content at the third codon position represents the main source of codon-usage variation, both within species (among genes) and among species. The non-Trypanosoma species exhibit narrow distributions in codon usage, while both Trypanosoma species present large within-species heterogeneity. The three non-Trypanosoma species have very similar codon-usage preferences. These codon preferences are also shared by the highly expressed genes of T. cruzi and to a lesser degree by those of T. brucei. This leads to the conclusion that the codon preferences shared by these species are the ancestral ones in the kinetoplastids. On the other hand, the study of noncoding sequences shows that Trypanosoma species exhibit mutational biases toward A + T richness, while the non-Trypanosoma species present mutational pressure in the opposite direction. These data taken together allow us to infer the origin of the different codon-usage distributions observed in the five species studied. In C. fasciculata and Leishmania, both mutational biases and (translational) selection pull toward G + C richness, resulting in a narrow distribution. In Trypanosoma species the mutational pressure toward A + T richness produced a shift in their genomes that differentially affected coding and noncoding sequences. The effect of these pressures on the third codon position of genes seems to have been inversely proportional to the level of gene expression.
RNA Interference Analysis of the Functions of Cyclin B in Male Reproductive Development of the Oriental River Prawn (Macrobrachium nipponense). Cyclin B (CycB) plays essential roles in cell proliferation and promotes gonad development in many crustaceans. The goal of this study was to investigate the regulatory roles of this gene in the reproductive development of male oriental river prawns (Macrobrachium nipponense). A phylo-genetic tree analysis revealed that the protein sequence of Mn-CycB was most closely related to those of freshwater prawns, whereas the evolutionary distance from crabs was much longer. A quantitative PCR analysis showed that the expression of Mn-CycB was highest in the gonad of both male and female prawns compared to that in other tissues (p < 0.05), indicating that this gene may play essential roles in the regulation of both testis and ovary development in M. nipponense. In males, Mn-CycB expression in the testis and androgenic gland was higher during the reproductive season than during the non-reproductive season (p < 0.05), implying that CycB plays essential roles in the reproductive development of male M. nipponense. An RNA interference analysis revealed that the Mn-insulin-like androgenic gland hormone expression decreased as the Mn-CycB expression decreased, and that few sperm were detected 14 days after the dsCycB treatment, indicating that CycB positively affects testis development in M. nipponense. The results of this study highlight the functions of CycB in M. nipponense, and they can be applied to studies of male reproductive development in other crustacean species.
'Effects of modified processing methods on structural changes of black soybean protein isolate. To explore better methods of natural protein modification for black soybean, comparisons among the effects of different modified methods on structural changes of the modified products of black soybean protein isolate (BSPI) were carried out in this study. The modified products used in this study included enzymatic crossing-link black soybean protein isolate (ECBSPI), wet heating treatment glycosylation black soybean protein isolate (WHTGBSPI) and especially enzymatic glycosylation black soybean protein isolate catalyzed by transglutaminase (EGBSPI). The effects of the modification methods on structural changes were analyzed by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE), amino acid content and circular dichroism (CD) analysis. Moreover, the processing properties changes caused by structural changes of BSPI were detected by thermogravimetric analysis, particle size analysis, zeta-potential, surface hydrophobicity, solubility, emulsification, gelation, and rheological properties. The results show that the modified BSPI products were protein polymers, and among them, EGBSP and WHTGBSPI are covalently bonded glycation products. Products modified by Maillard reactions and transglutaminase (TG) display partly destroyed α-helix and β-sheet structures that form more open secondary BSPI structures. For ECBSPI, the proportion of irregular crimp structure reduces to form a high order secondary structure. All the modified products form fine aggregations in dispersion, except WHTGBSPI has most negative zeta-potential and least molecular stability due to the hydrophobic amino acids embedded in the protein molecules. The zeta-potentials of BSPI, ECBSPI, WHTGBSPI and EGBSPI are respectively −21.5, −23.8, −18.1 and −20.2 mV. The surface hydrophobicity of EGBSPI (5.07 ± 0.07) and WHTGBSPI (7.02 ± 0.05) decrease, while the surface hydrophobicity of ECBSPI (19.5 ± 0.06) increases. The solubility and rheological properties of EGBSPI, ECBSPI and WHTGBSPI after modification are all better than those of BSPI, especially EGBSPI. Emulsification of EGBSPI and WHTGBSPI increase (by 24.5% and 12.2%, respectively) while ECBSPI decrease (by 17.0), and there is similar emulsion stability trend. Moreover, the properties of ECBSPI increase except cohesiveness compared to BSPI. In conclusion, as a safe and efficient method for natural protein modification, enzymatic glycosylation catalyzed by TG has great potential in improving food processing characteristics.
Impact of granule hydration on maize and wheat starch chemical reactivity at the granular and molecular levels. Granular and molecular reaction patterns of maize and wheat starches (normal and waxy genotypes) were investigated in relation to extent of granule hydration (equilibrated at 25, 55, 75, 86 or 100% relative humidity [RH]; moisture range ≈ 10–40 g/100 g starch) within a model reaction system utilizing a fluorescent reagent (5-(4,6-dichlorotriazinyl)aminofluorescein). The greatest incremental increase in granule hydration (49–80%) and overall extent of reaction (30-76-fold) occurred between 86 and 100% RH, likely accentuating the starch glass transition temperature (Tg), which was depressed to room temperature via gradual granule hydration. Under limited hydration conditions (25–86% RH; presumably below Tg), reaction was confined to granule surfaces, whereas under conditions of sufficient hydration/plasticization (100% RH; presumably above Tg), reaction occurred throughout the granule matrix, dramatically increasing reaction of amylose and amylopectin branch chains. For normal starches, amylose was more inert to reaction in low moisture conditions (25–87% RH), indicating either a lesser prevalence at granular surfaces or insufficient hydration to react. Waxy starches exhibited more homogenous granular reaction patterns and greater overall extents of reaction than their respective normal starch counterparts, due to reactivity differences amongst amylose and amylopectin medium and long chains. Findings also provide insights for manipulating granular/molecular reaction locale in “dry” starch modifications.
Induction of proliferative responses of T cells from Babesia bovis-immune cattle with a recombinant 77-kilodalton merozoite protein (Bb-1). A major portion of a Babesia bovis-specific gene encoding a 77-kDa merozoite protein (Bb-1) produced during natural infection in cattle and in microaerophilous culture was subcloned into the pGEX1N expression vector. Recombinant Bb-1 protein fused to glutathione S-transferase (Bb-1-GST) was used to examine cellular immune responses in B. bovis-immune cattle. Sera from rabbits immunized with Bb-1-GST reacted with fusion protein and with the native antigen present in crude B. bovis but not with B. bigemina merozoites. Bb-1-GST but not GST induced strong proliferation of T lymphocytes from these immune cattle, and Bb-1-reactive T-cell lines which consisted of a mixed population of either CD4+ and CD8+ cells or CD4+, CD8+, and 'null' (γδ T) cells were established by in vitro stimulation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells with the recombinant fusion protein. Three CD4+ CD8- and three CD4- CD8+ Bb-1-specific T-cell clones were identified after limiting- dilution cloning of the cell lines. The studies described here demonstrate that the 77-kDa protein of B. bovis contains T-cell epitopes capable of eliciting proliferation of two types of T cells in immune cattle, an important consideration for the design of a recombinant subunit vaccine.
Rapid assessment of sacred groves: A biodiversity assessment tool for ground level practitioners. Sacred groves in the Western Ghats are culturally preserved patches of forests that are rich in diversity owing to protection by several generations of local people, providing excellent examples of community based conservation. Sacred groves harbour local populations, preserve genetic resources and serve as reference sites and corridors between protected areas. They are considered to be cornerstones of biodiversity conservation, but are insufficient in scale and number to significantly address many aspects of the management of landscapes and biodiversity. We studied 13 sacred groves in Pune District that are at present outside the protected areas of the northern Western Ghats, where we employed a simple and rapid biodiversity assessment technique that can be replicated by frontline foresters, local residents and Biodiversity Management Committees (BMCs). Integrating these sacred sites into the conservation network through local support can improve the efficiency for the existing protected area network in this ecologically fragile region.
Microbial community structure in sand on two olive ridley arribada nesting beaches, Playa La Flor, Nicaragua and Playa Nancite, Costa Rica. Microbial relative abundance, diversity and richness were assessed based on 16S rRNA gene-based TRF community analysis via terminal restriction fragment (TRF) analysis on two olive ridley turtle arribada nesting beaches in Central America, Playa La Flor in Nicaragua and Playa Nancite in Costa Rica. Arribada beaches have very high densities of egg clutches in small areas, and the sand contains numerous broken eggs due to turtles inadvertently disturbing previously laid clutches. The high organic content (broken eggs) in the sand causes microbial build up in clutches, which in return may affect hatching success. Phylotype relative abundance (fragment abundance) differed with nest density and distance from the water at both Playa Nancite and Playa La Flor. Higher relative abundance of certain bacterial species in high nest density areas may have contributed to lower hatching success. Bacterial diversity and richness increased with nest density and were higher in the zones closer to vegetation suggesting that bacterial diversity and richness may be important factors affecting hatching success of olive ridley eggs on these nesting beaches. To better conserve olive ridley sea turtles and manage egg harvest on arribada nesting beaches further studies should focus on identifying bacterial species that are pathogenic to turtle eggs and their effects on hatching success.
Modeling framework for optimal evacuation of large-scale crowded pedestrian facilities. The paper presents a simulation-optimization modeling framework for the evacuation of large-scale pedestrian facilities with multiple exit gates. The framework integrates a genetic algorithm (GA) and a microscopic pedestrian simulation-Assignment model. The GA searches for the optimal evacuation plan, while the simulation model guides the search through evaluating the quality of the generated evacuation plans. Evacuees are assumed to receive evacuation instructions in terms of the optimal exit gates and evacuation start times. The framework is applied to develop an optimal evacuation plan for a hypothetical crowded exhibition hall. The obtained results show that the model converges to a superior optimal evacuation plan within an acceptable number of iterations. In addition, the obtained evacuation plan outperforms conventional plans that implement nearest-gate immediate evacuation strategies.
An efficient controlled elitism non-dominated sorting genetic algorithm for multi-objective supplier selection under fuzziness. Supplier selection and order allocation constitute vital strategic decisions that must be made by managers within supply chain management environments. In this paper, we propose a multi-objective fuzzy model for supplier selection and order allocation in a two-level supply chain with multi-period, multi-source, and multi-product characteristics. The supplier evaluation objectives considered in this model include cost, delay, and electronic-waste (e-waste) minimization, as well as coverage and weight maximization. A signal function is used to model the price discount offered by the suppliers. Triangular fuzzy numbers are used to deal with the uncertainty of delay and e-waste parameters while the fuzzy Technique for Order Performance by Similarity to Ideal Solution (TOPSIS) is used to obtain the weights of the suppliers. The resulting NP-hard problem, a Pareto-based meta-heuristic algorithm called controlled elitism non-dominated sorting genetic algorithm (CENSGA), is developed. The Non-dominated Sorting Genetic Algorithm (NSGA-II) and Multi-Objective Particle Swarm Optimization (MOPSO) are used to validate the applicability of the CENSGA algorithm and the Taguchi technique to tune the parameters of the algorithms. The results are analysed using graphical and statistical comparisons illustrating how the proposed CENSGA dominates NSGA-II and MOPSO in terms of mean ideal solution distance (MID) and spacing metrics.
Comparing performance of multiple non-invasive genetic capture-recapture methods for abundance estimation: A case study with the Sonoran pronghorn Antilocapra americana sonoriensis. Demographic monitoring is required in threatened species management, yet effective and efficient monitoring is challenging for species that are difficult to capture or susceptible to capture stress. One possible monitoring approach for such species is non-invasive genetic sampling with capture-recapture methods (genetic capture-recapture). We evaluated the performance of genetic capture-recapture in a challenging model system, monitoring the threatened Sonoran pronghorn Antilocapra americana sonoriensis. In an effort to determine the best (i.e. efficient, accurate, precise, cost-effective) method for abundance estimation, we used simulations to examine the optimal genetic capture-recapture faecal sampling design for this population. We simulated encounter histories for 100-300 individuals, with 0.33-3.33 samples/individual/session, in 1-3 sampling sessions. We explored trade-offs between sample size, number of sessions and multi-session (MARK) versus single-session (capwire) closed capture-recapture abundance estimators, and an accurate and precise estimate. We also compared the cost between the genetic capture-recapture approaches and current aerial monitoring methods. Abundance was biased positively in capwire and negatively in MARK. Bias increased and precision decreased with fewer samples/individual/session. Annual genetic capture-recapture monitoring cost was nearly twice the cost of aerial surveys, although genetic capture-recapture methods provided much higher precision. However at the current estimated abundance (c. 200), the same level of precision achieved with aerial methods can be obtained by collecting 0.75 samples/individual in a single session, for an annual cost saving of > USD 4,000. This approach of comparing estimator performance and cost can easily be applied to other systems and is a useful evaluation for managers to implement prior to designing capture-recapture studies.
Genome-wide association study between single nucleotide polymorphisms and flight speed in Nellore cattle. Introduction Cattle temperament is an important factor that affects the profitability of beef cattle enterprises, due to its relationship with productivity traits, animal welfare and labor safety. Temperament is a complex phenotype often assessed by measuring a series of behavioral traits, which result from the effects of multiple environmental and genetic factors, and their interactions. The aims of this study were to perform a genome-wide association study and detect genomic regions, potential candidate genes and their biological mechanisms underlying temperament, measured by flight speed (FS) test in Nellore cattle. Materials and Methods The genome-wide association study (GWAS) was performed using a single-step procedure (ssGBLUP) which combined simultaneously all 16,600 phenotypes from genotyped and non-genotyped animals, full pedigree information of 162,645 animals and 1,384 genotyped animals in one step. The animals were genotyped with High Density Bovine SNP BeadChip which contains 777,962 SNP markers. After quality control (QC) a total of 455,374 SNPs remained. Results Heritability estimated for FS was 0.21 ± 0.02. Consecutive SNPs explaining 1% or more of the total additive genetic variance were considered as windows associated with FS. Nine candidate regions located on eight different Bos taurus chromosomes (BTA) (1 at 73 Mb, 2 at 65 Mb, 5 at 22 Mb and 119 Mb, 9 at 98 Mb, 11 at 67 Mb, 15 at 16 Mb, 17 at 63 Kb, and 26 at 47 Mb) were identified. The candidate genes identified in these regions were NCKAP5 (BTA2), PARK2 (BTA9), ANTXR1 (BTA11), GUCY1A2 (BTA15), CPE (BTA17) and DOCK1 (BTA26). Among these genes PARK2, GUCY1A2, CPE and DOCK1 are related to dopaminergic system, memory formation, biosynthesis of peptide hormone and neurotransmitter and brain development, respectively. Conclusions Our findings allowed us to identify nine genomic regions (SNP windows) associated with beef cattle temperament, measured by FS test. Within these windows, six promising candidate genes and their biological functions were identified. These results may contribute to a better comprehension into the genetic control of temperament expression in Nellore cattle.
Genetic diversity and aggressiveness of Ophiosphaerella korrae, a cause of spring dead spot of bermudagrass. The distribution of three Ophiosphaerella spp. that cause spring dead spot (SDS) of bermudagrass was studied by sampling at 24 locations in the southeastern United States. O. korrae was isolated from 73% of the 204 bermudagrass cores collected and was the only SDS pathogen recovered at most sites. O. herpotricha was isolated at three locations in Kentucky and one in North Carolina, and O. narmari was found at two locations in North Carolina. Most O. korrae isolates collected from Alabama, Kentucky, Mississippi, Tennessee, and Virginia clustered in an amplified fragment length polymorphism group (AFLP group II) that was distinct from Kentucky bluegrass isolates collected throughout North America and similar to bermudagrass isolates from Kansas and Oklahoma (AFLP group I). A third AFLP group (III) consisting of bermudagrass isolates from Mississippi and Virginia was identified. Isolates representing AFLP groups II and III grew more rapidly on potato dextrose agar at 25 and 30°C than those in group I. O. korrae isolates differed in their aggressiveness to two bermudagrass cultivars in greenhouse studies, but these differences were not associated with AFLP group, location, or host from which the isolate was collected.
Inter-genotype aggression in the solitary sea anemone Actinia tenebrosa. Acrorhagial fighting occurs between some pairs of adult Actinia tenebrosa, and such fighting almost always results in the locomotory withdrawal of the loser. Adults are also able to attack and kill juvenile conspecifics in laboratory conditions. In laboratory trials, 58 of 89 pairs of adults responded aggressively when placed in contact. Conflicts developed disproportionately often when adults were genotypically different, as judged by electrophoretic examination of 5 polymorphic enzymes, or when adults were markedly different in weight. Neither the sexual maturity nor presence of brooded juveniles affected the probability that conflicts would develop between adults. Weight did not affect the outcome of the conflicts. Presentation of apparently asexually produced juveniles to adults revealed that both the recognition and effector phases of the acrorhagial response are triggered by genotypic dissimilarity and not by size dissimilarity per se. Acrorhagial responses were initiated only on contact with juveniles from other adults. Localised release of asexually-produced brooded juveniles contributes substantially to recruitment within established populations of A. tenebrosa. Aggressive interactions between genotypes thus seem likely to play an important role in intra-specific competition for recruitment space.
Segregation of scab resistance in three apple populations: Molecular marker and phenotypic analyses. The codominant PCR marker AL07-SCAR closely linked to the Vf gene for scab resistance was used to genotype seedlings in three apple populations in which each parent ('GoldRush', 'Enterprise', 'Pristine', and CQR10T17) was resistant to apple scab. The marker was used to predict the genotype at the Vf locus. Each parent was heterozygous. In two populations (CQR10T17 x 'GoldRush' and 'Pristine' x 'GoldRush') seedlings segregated 1:2:1 for fragments associated with VfVf:V fvf:vfvf as predicted by Mendelian segregation. However, in another population ('GoldRush' x 'Enterprise') the ratio was 1.5:1:1.5, suggesting some type of selection against heterozygotes. Fruiting seedlings were rated for the presence of fruit scab. No scab was observed on seedlings homozygous for the PCR marker linked to Vf, a small amount of scab was observed on one heterozygous seedling out of 35, and 22 of 26 seedlings that were homozygous recessive, had fruit scab.
tRNAS undermethylation in a met-regulatory mutant of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. A study of in vivo and in vitro methylation of tRNAs in regulatory mutants affected in methionine-mediated repression (eth2, eth3, eth10) has led to the following results:o1)The eth2-2 carrying strain presents a great undermethylation of its tRNAs, of the same order of magnitude as observed during methionine starvation of methionine auxotrophs.2)This undermethylation leads to a shift of the tRNAmetIII peak on a BD cellulose column, while tRNAmetkIII peak is unchanged.3)The study of a double mutant strain carrying eth2 and met2 mutations has shown that this undermethylation is a consequence of the high internal pool of methionine.4)Undermethylation unequally affects the different bases and the different tRNA species.
Studies on the distribution of complementary genes causing F1 weakness in common rice and its wild relatives. 2. Distribution of two complementary genes, Hwc-1 and Hwc-2 gene in native cultivars and its wild relatives of tropical Asia. Distribution of two complementary genes Hwc-1 and Hwc-2 causing F1 weakness was examined using 159 native rice cultivars and 30 strains of wild relatives collected from various sites of tropical Asia including the Himalayan foothills. Hwc-1 is carried by a Peruvian cultivar, Jamaica, a tester cultivar of this experiment. It was not found in the tested cultivars and strains. Hwc-2 was widely distributed in the Japonica types tested. No wild strains had either Hwc-1 or Hwc-2. Hwc-2 was infrequent in the Japonica types collected from Southern Asian countries. Hwc-2 was estimated to be indigenous to the Japonica types, may be linked with certain gene(s) related to adaptation.
Identification, characterization, and utilization of genome-wide simple sequence repeats to identify a QTL for acidity in apple. Background: Apple is an economically important fruit crop worldwide. Developing a genetic linkage map is a critical step towards mapping and cloning of genes responsible for important horticultural traits in apple. To facilitate linkage map construction, we surveyed and characterized the distribution and frequency of perfect microsatellites in assembled contig sequences of the apple genome.Results: A total of 28,538 SSRs have been identified in the apple genome, with an overall density of 40.8 SSRs per Mb. Di-nucleotide repeats are the most frequent microsatellites in the apple genome, accounting for 71.9% of all microsatellites. AT/TA repeats are the most frequent in genomic regions, accounting for 38.3% of all the G-SSRs, while AG/GA dimers prevail in transcribed sequences, and account for 59.4% of all EST-SSRs. A total set of 310 SSRs is selected to amplify eight apple genotypes. Of these, 245 (79.0%) are found to be polymorphic among cultivars and wild species tested. AG/GA motifs in genomic regions have detected more alleles and higher PIC values than AT/TA or AC/CA motifs. Moreover, AG/GA repeats are more variable than any other dimers in apple, and should be preferentially selected for studies, such as genetic diversity and linkage map construction. A total of 54 newly developed apple SSRs have been genetically mapped. Interestingly, clustering of markers with distorted segregation is observed on linkage groups 1, 2, 10, 15, and 16. A QTL responsible for malic acid content of apple fruits is detected on linkage group 8, and accounts for ~13.5% of the observed phenotypic variation.Conclusions: This study demonstrates that di-nucleotide repeats are prevalent in the apple genome and that AT/TA and AG/GA repeats are the most frequent in genomic and transcribed sequences of apple, respectively. All SSR motifs identified in this study as well as those newly mapped SSRs will serve as valuable resources for pursuing apple genetic studies, aiding the apple breeding community in marker-assisted breeding, and for performing comparative genomic studies in Rosaceae.
Doublesex- and Mab-3-related transcription factor-1 repression of aromatase transcription, a possible mechanism favoring the male pathway in Tilapia. Doublesex- and Mab-3-related transcription factor-1 (Dmrt1) is an important transcription factor implicated in early testicular differentiation in vertebrates, but its target genes are largely unknown. In the Nile tilapia, estrogen is the natural inducer of ovarian differentiation. Our recent studies haveshownthat Forkhead-l2 up-regulated transcription of the Cyp19a1a gene (aromatase) in the gonads in a female-specific manner. However, the upstream factor(s) down-regulating Cyp19a1a expression during testicular differentiation remains unclear. In the present study, we used in vitro (promoter analysis) and in vivo (transgenesis and in situ hybridization) approaches to examine whether Dmrt1 inhibits Cyp19a1a's transcriptional activity. The in vitro analysis using luciferase assays revealed that Dmrt1 repressed basal as well as Ad4BP/SF-1-activated Cyp19a1a transcription in HEK 293 cells. Luciferase assays with various deletions of Dmrt1 also showed that the Doublesex and Mab-3 domain is essential for the repression. In vitro-translated Dmrt1 and the nuclear extract from tilapia testis could directly bind to the palindrome sequence ACATATGT in the Cyp19a1a promoter, as determined by EMSAs. Transgenic overexpression of Dmrt1 in XX fish resulted in decreased aromatase gene expression, reduced serum estradiol-17β levels, retardation of the ovarian cavity's development, varying degrees of follicular degeneration, and even a partial to complete sex reversal. Our results indicate that aromatase is one of the targets of Dmrt1. Dmrt1 suppresses the female pathway by repressing aromatase gene transcription and estrogen production in the gonads of tilapia and possibly other vertebrates.
Inkjet Printed Nanopatterned Aptamer-Based Sensors for Improved Optical Detection of Foodborne Pathogens. The increasing incidence of infectious outbreaks from contaminated food and water supply continues imposing a global burden for food safety, creating a market demand for on-site, disposable, easy-to-use, and cost-efficient devices. Despite of the rapid growth of biosensors field and the generation of breakthrough technologies, more than 80% of the platforms developed at lab-scale never will get to meet the market. This work aims to provide a cost-efficient, reliable, and repeatable approach for the detection of foodborne pathogens in real samples. For the first time an optimized inkjet printing platform is proposed taking advantage of a carefully controlled nanopatterning of novel carboxyl-functionalized aptameric ink on a nitrocellulose substrate for the highly efficient detection of E. coli O157:H7 (25 colony forming units (CFU) mL−1 in pure culture and 233 CFU mL−1 in ground beef) demonstrating the ability to control the variation within ±1 SD for at least 75% of the data collected even at very low concentrations. From the best of the knowledge this work reports the lowest limit of detection of the state of the art for paper-based optical detection of E. coli O157:H7, with enough evidence (p > 0.05) to prove its high specificity at genus, species, strain, and serotype level.
Identification of downstream effectors of retinoic acid specifying the zebrafish pancreas by integrative genomics. Retinoic acid (RA) is a key signal for the specification of the pancreas. Still, the gene regulatory cascade triggered by RA in the endoderm remains poorly characterized. In this study, we investigated this regulatory network in zebrafish by combining RNA-seq, RAR ChIP-seq and ATAC-seq assays. By analysing the effect of RA and of the RA receptor (RAR) inverse-agonist BMS493 on the transcriptome and on the chromatin accessibility of endodermal cells, we identified a large set of genes and regulatory regions regulated by RA signalling. RAR ChIP-seq further defined the direct RAR target genes in zebrafish, including hox genes as well as several pancreatic regulators like mnx1, insm1b, hnf1ba and gata6. Comparison of zebrafish and murine RAR ChIP-seq data highlighted the conserved direct target genes and revealed that some RAR sites are under strong evolutionary constraints. Among them, a novel highly conserved RAR-induced enhancer was identified downstream of the HoxB locus and driving expression in the nervous system and in the gut in a RA-dependent manner. Finally, ATAC-seq data unveiled the role of the RAR-direct targets Hnf1ba and Gata6 in opening chromatin at many regulatory loci upon RA treatment.
Genomic signatures of experimental adaptive radiation in Drosophila. Abiotic environmental factors play a fundamental role in determining the distribution, abundance and adaptive diversification of species. Empowered by new technologies enabling rapid and increasingly accurate examination of genomic variation in populations, researchers may gain new insights into the genomic background of adaptive radiation and stress resistance. We investigated genomic variation across generations of large-scale experimental selection regimes originating from a single founder population of Drosophila melanogaster, diverging in response to ecologically relevant environmental stressors: heat shock, heat knock down, cold shock, desiccation and starvation. When compared to the founder population, and to parallel unselected controls, there were more than 100,000 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) displaying consistent allelic changes in response to selective pressures across generations. These SNPs were found in both coding and noncoding sequences, with the highest density in promoter regions, and involved a broad range of functionalities, including molecular chaperoning by heat-shock proteins. The SNP patterns were highly stressor-specific despite considerable variation among line replicates within each selection regime, as reflected by a principal component analysis, and co-occurred with selective sweep regions. Only ~15% of SNPs with putatively adaptive changes were shared by at least two selective regimes, while less than 1% of SNPs diverged in opposite directions. Divergent stressors driving evolution in the experimental system of adaptive radiation left distinct genomic signatures, most pronounced in starvation and heat-shock selection regimes.
A highly efficient transformation protocol for Micro-Tom, a model cultivar for tomato functional genomics. We report a highly efficient protocol for the Agrobacterium-mediated genetic transformation of a miniature dwarf tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum), Micro-Tom, a model cultivar for tomato functional genomics. Cotyledon explants of tomato inoculated with Agrobacterium tumefaciens (Rhizobium radiobacter) C58C1RifR harboring the binary vector pIG121Hm generated a mass of chimeric non-transgenic and transgenic adventitious buds. Repeated shoot elongation from the mass of adventitious buds on selection media resulted in the production of multiple transgenic plants that originated from independent transformation events. The transformation efficiency exceeded 40% of the explants. This protocol could become a powerful tool for functional genomics in tomato.
Trithemis morrisoni sp. nov. and T. palustris sp. nov. from the Okavango and Upper Zambezi Floodplains previously hidden under T. stictica (Odonata: Libellulidae). During the course of a population genetic study of Trithemis stictica that included sites in Namibia, Kenya, Tanzania, Ethiopia, Botswana and Zambia, two undescribed libellulid species were discovered in the Okavango and Upper Zambezi Floodplains. These were both previously identified as T. stictica. We describe the two species, T. morrisoni sp. nov. (holotype ♂: Namibia, Nature Reserve Popa Falls, Okavango River at the rapids, 18°07′S, 21°40′; iv 2007, leg. K.-D.B. Dijkstra; dep. in the National Museum of Namibia, Windhoek) and T. palustris sp. nov. (holotype ♂: Botswana, Okavango Delta, Moremi Game Reserve, 19°15′S, 23°20′E; ii 2007, leg J. Kipping; dep. in the National Museum of Namibia, Windhoek) and compare them with T. stictica.
Peculiarities of oogenesis in the chick. I. Extrafollicular period in the development of oocytes. The early stages of oogenesis in the chick were studied by means of light cytochemistry and autoradiography. The oocytes devoid of follicular epithelium are located in the ovarian cortex in groups of 8, 16 or 32 cells. Within the bounds of the group they develop synchronously until the beginning of formation of the follicular epithelium around each oocyte. By 15 days of postembryonic development all oocytes in the ovarian cortex enter the diplotene stage of meiotic prophase. The formation of follicles is completed by 22 days. The morphological descriptions are given for the oocyte nuclei at the preleptotene, leptotene, zygotene, pachytene and early diplotene stages of meiotic prophase. The nucleolus appears at the early diplotene stage and is characterized by extremely weak synthetic activity. It is specially stressed that the nucleolus does not form in alloocytes and that the population of germ cells in the chick ovary is heterogenous by this character. The beginning of RNA synthesis in the oocyte nucleus is timed to the early diplotene stage. The data are obtained on DNA synthesis in the nuclei of preleptotene and leptotene oocytes not related to the amplification of ribosomal genes.
Extended MLST-based population genetics and phylogeny of Vibrio parahaemolyticus with high levels of recombination. A collection of 174 global isolates of Vibrio parahaemolyticus were analyzed by multilocus sequence typing (MLST) on the basis of ten conserved genes. The results showed a high level of nucleotide and allelic diversity with the evidence of purifying selection and of frequent recombination. Recombination played a much greater role than mutation in generating genetic heterogeneity. The 174 strains could be assigned into 89 different sequence types, which could be further separated into six clonal complexes (CCs; CC1 to CC6) plus 71 singletons. The three major CCs, namely CC1 to CC3, corresponded to the groups of pre-1996 clinical old-O3:K6 strains (trh+, T3SS2β+, Tdh-, T3SS2β-, and GS-PCR-), post-1996 pandemic strains (trh-, T3SS2β-, tdh+, T3SS2β+, and GS-PCR+) and non-clinical isolates (trh-, T3SS2β-, tdh-, T3SS2β-, and GS-PCR-), respectively. The MLST data enable the construction of a phylogenetic structure from the allelic profiles rather the nucleotide sequences, so as to reduce the affect of frequent recombination. The six CCs arose on a background of mutation and recombination, and according to the previously reported data, this bacterium could be evolved fast due to lateral acquisition of foreign genes especially including those encoding virulence determinants. V. parahaemolyticus had a typical epidemic population structure that is driven by mutation, recombination and lateral gene transfer.
'Bio-inspired optimization of interval type-2 fuzzy controllers. A review of the optimization methods used in the design of type-2 fuzzy systems, which are relatively novel models of imprecision, has been considered in this paper. The fundamental focus of the work has been based on the basic reasons of the need for optimizing type-2 fuzzy systems for different areas of application. Recently, bio-inspired methods have emerged as powerful optimization algorithms for solving complex problems. In the case of designing type-2 fuzzy systems for particular applications, the use of bio-inspired optimization methods have helped in the complex task of finding the appropriate parameter values and structure of the fuzzy systems. In this paper, we consider the application of genetic algorithms, particle swarm optimization and ant colony optimization as three different paradigms that help in the design of optimal type-2 fuzzy systems. We also provide a comparison of the different optimization methods for the case of designing type-2 fuzzy systems.
Growth of uncultured heterotrophic flagellates in unamended seawater incubations. Unamended dark incubations of 3 μm-filtered seawater were prepared with surface samples from the Norwegian Sea, the NW Mediterranean and the Indian Ocean. Except for the very oligotrophic Indian Ocean samples, this simple treatment promoted the growth of heterotrophic flagellates, with rates (0.3 to 1.2 d-1) typical of natural assemblages. Marine stramenopile (MAST)-1 and MAST-4 cell counts, obtained by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), increased in most incubations. These yet uncultured protists were first detected in molecular surveys of marine picoplankton and have been recently shown to be globally distributed heterotrophic flagellates. Three incubations from the Norwegian Sea were studied in more detail by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE), 18S rRNA gene clone libraries and FISH counts for 5 MAST groups. Protist diversity changed gradually during the incubation, but the DGGE bands selected were already present at the beginning of the incubation. Clone libraries from the peaks in abundance of heterotrophic flagellates were dominated by MAST seguences. FISH counts revealed MAST-1B to be a very successful organism in the 3 incubations, accounting for 15 to 30% of heterotrophic flagellates after 6 to 8 d; MAST-1A and -1C cells were also abundant. MAST-4 cells peaked before the other groups and MAST-2 was the least represented. We concluded that unamended seawater incubations can select for heterotrophic flagellates abundant in situ but not yet isolated in pure culture. Therefore, they allow investigation of the growth requirements and dynamics of these uncultured protists, and provide promising preliminary stages for their isolation.
Nop53p is required for late 60S ribosome subunit maturation and nuclear export in yeast. We report that Ypl146cp/Nop53p is associated with pre-60S ribosomal complexes and localized to the nucleolus and nucleoplasm. In cells depleted of Nop53p synthesis of the rRNA components of the 60S ribosomal subunit is severely inhibited, with strikingly strong accumulation of the 7S pre-rRNA and a 5′ extended form of the 25S rRNA. In cells depleted of Nop53p pre-60S subunits accumulate in the nucleus. However, a heterokaryon assay demonstrated that Nop53p is not transferred between nuclei, indicating that it is not released into the cytoplasm. We conclude that Nop53p is a late-acting factor in the nuclear maturation of 60S ribosomal subunits, which is required for normal acquisition of export competence. The strong accumulation of preribosomes in the Nop53p-depleted strain further suggests that it may participate in targeting aberrant preribosomes to surveillance and degradation pathways.
The Transcriptomic Signature of Tigecycline in Acinetobacter baumannii. Tigecycline, a protein translation inhibitor, is a treatment of last resort for infections caused by the opportunistic multidrug resistance human pathogen Acinetobacter baumannii. However, strains resistant to tigecycline were reported not long after its clinical introduction. Translation inhibitor antibiotics perturb ribosome function and induce the reduction of (p)ppGpp, an alarmone involved in the stringent response that negatively modulates ribosome production. Through RNA sequencing, this study revealed a significant reduction in the transcription of genes in citric acid cycle and cell respiration, suggesting tigecycline inhibits or slows down bacterial growth. Our results indicated that the drug-induced reduction of (p)ppGpp level promoted the production but diminished the degradation of ribosomes, which mitigates the translational inhibition effect by tigecycline. The reduction of (p)ppGpp also led to a decrease of transcription coupled nucleotide excision repair which likely increases the chances of development of tigecycline resistant mutants. Increased expression of genes linked to horizontal gene transfer were also observed. The most upregulated gene, rtcB, involving in RNA repair, is either a direct tigecycline stress response or is in response to the transcription de-repression of a toxin-antitoxin system. The most down-regulated genes encode two β-lactamases, which is a possible by-product of tigecycline-induced reduction in transcription of genes associated with peptidoglycan biogenesis. This transcriptomics study provides a global genetic view of why A. baumannii is able to rapidly develop tigecycline resistance.
So many rhizobial partners, so little nitrogen fixed: The intriguing symbiotic promiscuity of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.). Symbiotic diazotrophic bacteria collectively called “rhizobia” can associate with legumes and form specialized structures in the roots, called nodules, where the biological nitrogen fixation (BNF) process takes place. Common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) is a major protein source in the diet of the population of many countries such as Brazil and can benefit from the BNF process, but there is still little knowledge about the diversity and effectiveness of indigenous microsymbionts. In this study, the diversity and the nitrogen fixation ability of bacterial isolates trapped by common bean nodules in 14 municipalities of Mato Grosso do Sul state, Central-Western region, comprising three Brazilian biomes were investigated. The DNA profiles (BOX-PCR) of 82 isolates indicated outstanding diversity, with 12 main clusters and 36 isolates occupying single positions, joined at a final level of similarity of less than 20%. The 16S rRNA phylogeny of 56 isolates representing the DNA profiles indicated ten genera, with 38 isolates identified as “classical rhizobia” and Agrobacterium, and the remaining 18 belonging to six other genera. The 38 isolates had their glnII gene sequenced and were evaluated for the capacity of nodulation and BNF with common bean, and only 12 formed effective nitrogen-fixing nodules, five positioned in the R. etli and six in the R. tropici clades, and one of Agrobacterium. These results highlight the promiscuity of common bean in capturing a variety of microbial species in their nodules, whose function has not been well elucidated yet. Only one-fifth of the isolates were effective in fixing nitrogen, which might explain the frequently reported low rates of contribution of the BNF with this legume, an intriguing paradigm in the evolution of the symbiosis.
Cloning and Rhythmic Expression Analysis of LgFKF1 Gene in Luculia gratissima. [Objective] To study the regulatory role of LgFKF1 gene during flowering process of L.gratissima, based on the analysis of its gene structural characteristics and rhythmic expression in specific tissues. [Method] The RACE technology was used to clone the full length cDNA of LgFKF1 gene. Sequence of nucleotides and code of protein were analyzed by using the software of bioinformatics. qRT-PCR was applied in the rhythmic expression analysis of the gene in specific tissues. [Result] The result of sequence analysis showed that the LgFKF1 cDNA, 2 271 bp in length, has a 1 917 bp open reading frame encoding a putative protein with 638 amino acids. The results of sequence alignment showed that the amino acids sequence was highly homologous with the FKF1 of Kaliphora madagascariensis, Allamanda cathartica, Wrightia natalensis and Asclepias curassavica, with the homology of 92.59%. LgFKF1 protein that had the closest genetic relationship with K. madagascariensis was unstable hydrophilic proteins without signal peptide and transmembrane regions, and located in the nucleus, mainly consisted of alpha helix, irregular curling structure and extended long chain. The result of qRT-PCR showed that the expression of LgFKF1 under inductive photoperiod for 7 days was higher than that under non-inductive photoperiod treatment,but the expression was lower than that under non-inductive photoperiod treatment if inductive photoperiod was more than 10 days. In a day, LgFKF1 expressed in various tissues,and showed a high transcription level in leaf. For the rhythmic expression of LgFKF1 in different tissues, one peak value was appeared at 23:00 in root, leaf bud and flower bud, and two peak values were appeared at 20:00 and 5:00 in stem, 2:00 and 8:00 in leaf, 23:00 and 5:00 in mature flower. [Conclusion] LgFKF1 was cloned from L.gratissima, and its putative protein sequence was highly homologous with the FKF1 of other plants. The expression of LgFKF1 gene was affected by photoperiod.Under the inductive photoperiod, various tissues showed itself expression pattern. A peak value of LgFKF1 expression in leaf was only appeared at 8:00 during the daytime,and the peak values in other tissues were occurred during the night. In these tissues, LgFKF1 showed higher transcription level in leaf. The rhythmic expression of LgFKF1 in specific tissues might be helpful to provides some references for further study on its biological function.
Functional Prediction of trans-Prenyltransferases Reveals the Distribution of GFPPSs in Species beyond the Brassicaceae Clade. Terpenoids are the most diverse class of plant primary and specialized metabolites, and trans-prenyltransferases (trans-PTs) are the first branch point to synthesize precursors of various chain lengths for further metabolism. Whereas the catalytic mechanism of the enzyme is known, there is no reliable method for precisely predicting the functions of trans-PTs. With the exponentially increasing number of available trans-PTs genes in public databases, an in silico functional prediction method for this gene family is urgently needed. Here, we present PTS-Pre, a web tool developed on the basis of the “three floors” model, which shows an overall 86% prediction accuracy for 141 experimentally determined trans-PTs. The method was further validated by in vitro enzyme assays for randomly selected trans-PTs. In addition, using this method, we identified nine new GFPPSs from different plants which are beyond the previously reported Brassicaceae clade, suggesting these genes may have occurred via convergent evolution and are more likely lineage-specific. The high accuracy of our blind prediction validated by enzymatic assays suggests that PTS-Pre provides a convenient and reliable method for genome-wide functional prediction of trans-PTs enzymes and will surely benefit the elucidation and metabolic engineering of terpenoid biosynthetic pathways.
Description of two new species of Hemiphyllodactylus (Reptilia: Gekkonidae) from karst landscapes in Yunnan, China, highlights complex conservation needs. Karst habitats are hotspots of diversity and endemism. Their naturally fragmented distributions across broad geographic landscapes have led to the complex array of smaller evolutionary ecosystems that present unique challenges from a conservation perspective. Comprehensive biodiversity assessments of karst habitats have revealed that these ecosystems contain an almost unparalleled level of endemism, and many site-restricted species remain undescribed, thus posing considerable challenges for effective conservation management. Small rock-dwelling species, such as geckos, may be particularly prone to such isolation. In this paper, we discuss one such genus, i.e., Hemiphyllodactylus, and explore its diversity across karst landforms in Yunnan Province, southwestern China. Based on morphological and genetic data, we describe two new species of Hemiphyllodactylus from karst habitats in Simao District and Yanshan County. A phylogenetic tree for Hemiphyllodactylus was constructed using 1 039 base pairs (bp) of the mitochondrial NADH dehydrogenase subunit 2 gene (ND2). The Simao and Yanshan specimens can be distinguished from all other congeners within their respective subclades based on uncorrected genetic pairwise distances greater than 6.3% and 4.3% respectively, as well as significant morphological differences. The discovery and description of these two new species brings the total number of described Hemiphyllodactylus species in China to 14 and indicates many more undescribed species from unsurveyed karst regions await discovery. Our findings suggest that karst ecosystems in Yunnan support a higher diversity of Hemiphyllodactylus than previously known. This study also highlights the importance of karst ecosystems as refugia for sitespecific endemic species and the need for heightened conservation efforts.
Regulation of non-coding RNAs in heat stress responses of plants. Heat stress is an important factor limiting plant growth, development, and productivity; thus, plants have evolved special adaptive mechanisms to cope with high-temperature stress. Non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) are a class of regulatory RNAs that play an important role in many biological processes. Recently developed advanced technologies, such as genome-wide transcriptomic analysis, have revealed that abundant ncRNAs are expressed under heat stress. Although this area of research is still in its infancy, an increasing number of several classes of regulatory ncRNA (i.e., miRNA, siRNA, and lncRNA) related to heat stress responses have been reported. In this mini-review, we discuss our current understanding of the role of ncRNAs in heat stress responses in plants, especially miRNAs, siRNAs, and their targets. For example, the miR398-CSD/CCS-HSF, miR396-WRKY6, miR159-GAMYB, and TAS1-HTT-HSF pathways regulate plant heat tolerance. We highlight the hormone/development-related miRNAs involved in heat stress, and discuss the regulatory networks of miRNA-targets. We also note that DNA methylation and alternative splicing could affect miRNA expression under heat stress, and some lncRNAs could respond to heat stress. Finally, we briefly discuss future prospects concerning the ncRNA-related mechanisms of heat stress responses in plants.
Distinct biochemical and topological properties of the 31- and 27-kilodalton plasma membrane intrinsic protein subgroups from red beet. Plasma membrane vesicles from red beet (Beta vulgaris L.) storage tissue contain two prominent major intrinsic protein species of 31 and 27 kD (X. Qi, C.Y Tai, B.P. Wasserman [1995] Plant Physiol 108: 387-392). In this study affinity-purified antibodies were used to investigate their localization and biochemical properties. Both plasma membrane intrinsic protein (PMIP) subgroups partitioned identically in sucrose gradients; however, each exhibited distinct properties when probed for multimer formation, and by limited proteolysis. The tendency of each PMIP species to form disulfide-linked aggregates was studied by inclusion of various sulfhydryl agents during tissue homogenization and vesicle isolation. In the absence of dithiothreitol and sulfhydryl reagents, PMIP27 yielded a mixture of monomeric and aggregated species. In contrast, generation of a monomeric species of PMIP31 required the addition of dithiothreitol, iodoacetic acid, or N-ethylmaleimide. Mixed disulfide-linked heterodimers between the PMIP31 and PMIP27 subgroups were not detected. Based on vectorial proteolysis of right-side-out vesicles with trypsin and hydropathy analysis of the predicted amino acid sequence derived from the gene encoding PMIP27, a topological model for a PMIP27 was established. Two exposed tryptic cleavage sites were identified from proteolysis of PMIP27, and each was distinct from the single exposed site previously identified in surface loop C of a PMIP31. Although the PMIP31 and PMIP27 species both contain integral proteins that appear to occur within a single vesicle population, these results demonstrate that each PMIP subgroup responds differently to perturbations of the membrane.
Born 1932, I was brought up in Stettin. I was trained as an organic chemist at Cologne University, before I entered the Institute of Genetics there in 1962 to work on tRNA structure and function. From 1967 to my retirement in 1997 I worked at the Adolf-Butenandt-Institute (Munich University) on several aspects of molecular biology of the budding yeast, for example tRNA genes, Ty elements, the yeast genome project, and programmed proteolysis. I include facets of my engagement in national and international organizations.
The purpose of this research was to determine the effects of evaporative cooling and air conditioner (AC) on the growth and yield of aeroponic potato plants in the lowlands planted with the application of root zone cooling. Nutrients were used at an electrical conductivity (EC) of 1-2 mS cm-1 and pH of nutritional solutions was 6. Two types of cooling measures were applied: evaporative cooling and air conditioning (AC) with a target temperature of 25°C. Two potato varieties (genotype 007 and granola) were used. The design used was a completely randomized with separate plot design. The main plot is the type of cooling (evaporative cooling and AC) and potato variety as the subplot. Growth data were analyzed by the F test followed by the DMRT test at the 5% level of significance. From the results of this research, we concluded that the evaporative cooling system could provide a decrease in air temperature in lowland greenhouses. However, the optimal humidity and temperature for the growth and development of aeroponic potato plants in the lowlands were not achieved when the air temperature in the greenhouse was high. The cooling by AC creates a more even temperature and humidity compared with the evaporative cooling. The humidity level inside a greenhouse that is not exposed to evaporative cooling (far from the plant area) reaches 42%. The difference in air humidity achieved with two different cooling type methods reached 2% at 13.00 hour and 6% at 16.00 hour. The application of cooling above the plant with AC resulted in a higher number of tubers and higher tuber weight compared with evaporative cooling. The average number of tubers produced from the application of AC was 19.3 crop bulbs, and the average tuber weight was 10.4 grams per tuber, while the application of evaporative cooling resulted in an average of 9.4 crop bulbs and an average tuber weight of 6.3 grams per tuber.
Biodiesel, an alternative to fossil fuel, is an important sustainable energy source and has thus received considerable attention under global energy crisis scenarios. Safflower seed oil is a good substrate for biodiesel production, however, the poor oxidative stability of safflower seed oil is one of the factors limiting the quality of biodiesel. This study aimed to optimize the safflower seed oil-based biodiesel production process and attempted to regulate the expression of the CtDof2 gene through abscisic acid to affect the safflower seed oil content, thereby improving biodiesel yield. This research optimized the preparation conditions: catalyst concentration 0.56%, molar ratio of oil to alcohol 1:6.4 and temperature 105 ℃ using response surface methodology, and the highest yield of biodiesel was 95.7 ± 0.2%. To test hypothesis that the application of abscisic acid alters safflower seed oil content via CtDof gene regulation, we expressed CtDof2 in yeast, which increased yeast oleic acid content by 27.3% and decreased stearic acid content by 20.6%. The increase in monounsaturated fatty acids predicts the improvement of biodiesel quality. Meanwhile, abscisic acid altered the fatty acid composition of safflower seed oil by regulating CtDof2, leading to an increase in the antioxidant capacity of biodiesel. This study provides new ideas for the improvement of biodiesel feedstock and the improvement of biodiesel quality in the future.
This paper presents a wearable hand module which was made of five fiber Bragg grating (FBG) strain sensor and algorithms to achieve high accuracy even when worn on different hand sizes of users. For real-time calculation with high accuracy, FBG strain sensors move continuously according to the size of the hand and the bending of the joint. Representatively, four algorithms were proposed; point strain (PTS), area summation (AREA), proportional summation (PS), and PS/interference (PS/I or PS/I_α). For more accurate and efficient assessments, 3D printed hand replica with different finger sizes was adopted and quantitative evaluations were performed for index~little fingers (77 to 117 mm) and thumb (68~78 mm). For index~little fingers, the optimized algorithms were PS and PS/I_α. For thumb, the optimized algorithms were PS/I_α and AREA. The average error angle of the wearable hand module was observed to be 0.47 ± 2.51° and mean absolute error (MAE) was achieved at 1.63 ± 1.97°. These results showed that more accurate hand modules than other glove modules applied to different hand sizes can be manufactured using FBG strain sensors which move continuously and algorithms for tracking this movable FBG sensors.
The increasing extraction of bitumen from the oil sands region in Canada is creating a need for transport. Spills from current and projected pipelines represent a significant environmental risk, especially for freshwater ecosystems. The toxicity of diluted bitumen (dilbit) on freshwater fish is largely unknown. This study assessed the toxicity of two dilbits (Clearwater McMurray and Bluesky) and compared their toxicity to a conventional oil (Lloydminster Heavy) on fathead minnow (Pimephales promelas) larvae. Larvae were exposed to various concentrations of the water-accommodated fraction (WAF) of the oils during 7 days from hatching. In the WAF treatments, the concentrations of volatile organic compounds (VOCs), including benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, xylene (BTEX), hydrocarbons containing 6 to 10 carbon atoms (C6–10), and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) and their alkylated forms were measured. Both dilbits contained higher concentrations of light components, while the conventional oil contained the highest concentrations of PAHs and alkylated PAHs. The Clearwater McMurray dilbit induced a higher mortality, with a maximum of 65.3%, while the other oils induced a similar mortality up to 16.5% and 18.6% for Lloydminster and for Bluesky, respectively. All three oils induced an increase in gene expression of the phase I detoxification enzyme (cyp1a) with increasing total hydrocarbon concentrations. All three exposures induced a similar increase in glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity, but no change in gst gene expression. For the Bluesky and Lloydminster exposures, an increase in malondialdehyde concentration was also observed, suggesting a rate limiting capacity of GST and phase II enzymes to perform the biotransformation of the PAH metabolites. Overall, this study brings new insights on the toxicity of dilbits in comparison to conventional oils on early life stages of North American freshwater fish and demonstrated that dilbits can be more toxic than conventional oils, depending on their composition and diluent proportions.
Aimed at the characteristics of multi-project production, complex process, high energy consumption and tight delivery in the mix-line production of missile structural components, an optimization model for a flexible job-shop scheduling problem considering energy consumption and makespan is developed based on equipment state-energy-consumption curve. A binary hybrid improved genetic algorithm (BH-GA) is proposed to solve the established optimization problem. To improve the searching ability of the algorithm, an information-sharing mechanism based on particle swarm optimization (PSO) is introduced to design the crossover operation of genetic algorithm (GA). In order to avoid falling into local optical solution, a novel temperature update function of simulated annealing algorithm (SA) based on Hill function is used to replace the mutation operation of GA. In addition, a weighted multi-attribute grey target decision model is adopted to select the most satisfactory schedule scheme. The effectiveness of the proposed algorithm is verified by the completely and partially flexible scheduling problems. Finally, the proposed algorithm is applied to the production workshop of missile structural components at an aerospace institute in Shanghai, and good effect is gained.
The rapid microbiological methods of quality control food in the HACCP systems. The paper contain the summary of the hazard analysis control point concept for the control of food microbiological safety. It characterises the express methods that can detect and identify the Food Poison Organisms, including the methods for the rapid detection and enumeration of microorganisms by means of a new impedance measuring systems, molecular-biologic methods and DNA-diagnostic methods.
Spectral unmixing is an important task for remotely sensed hyperspectral data exploitation. Due to the fact that the spatial resolution of the sensor may not be able to separate different spectrally pure components (endmembers), spectral unmixing faces important challenges in order to characterize mixed pixels. As a result, several hyperspectral unmixing chains have been proposed to find the spectral signatures for each endmember and their associated abundance fractions. However, unmixing algorithms canbe computationally expensive, which compromises their use in applications under real-time constraints. In this paper, we describe a new parallel hyperspectral unmixing chain based on three stages: 1) estimation of the number of endmembers using the geometry-based estimation of number of endmembers algorithm; 2) automatic identification of the spectral signatures of the endmembers using the simplex growing algorithm; and 3) estimation of the fractional abundance of each endmember in each pixel of the scene using the sum-to-one constrained least-squares unmixing algorithm. These algorithms have been specifically selected due to their successful performance in different applications. We have developed new parallel implementations of the aforementioned algorithms and assembled them in a fully operative unmixing chain using an hybrid implementation with the OpenCL framework and clMAGMA library. As a result, this is one of the first real-time implementations of a full unmixing chain in an open computing language. This methodology can be executed on different heterogeneous platforms such as CPU (multicore) and GPU platforms, in which accuracy, performance, and power consumption terms have been considered.
Response to Bagavathiannan and Van Acker's "transgenes and national boundaries - The need for international regulations": Biotechnology developers and regulators already consider transgene movement across national boundaries and the environmental risks posed by adventitious presence of unapproved events are overstated. Bagavathiannan and Van Acker propose greater international cooperation and information sharing in risk assessment for biotechnology-derived crops because pollen- and seed-mediated gene flow across political boundaries may lead to the adventitious presence of unapproved transgenes at sites along the borders of neighboring countries. However, they fail to convince us that something is wrong with the current situation and provide no details of how it could be improved.
Behavioral discrimination between monogyne and polygyne red fire ants (Hymenoptera: Formicidae) in their native range. Nestmate recognition among social insects is presumed to restrict non-nestmates from exploiting nest resources. Here, we developed aggression bioassays to assess the discrimination behaviors of both polygynous and monogynous forms of the red fire ant, Solenopsis invicta Buren, during symmetrical interactions in neutral arenas. Workers from polygyne colonies exhibited risk avoidance behaviors; that is, defensive postures or the avoidance of direct contact during interactions. Workers from monogyne colonies always exhibited aggressive behaviors in the form of physical or chemical attacks. In interactions between both, monogyne workers usually started the aggression by surrounding and biting the polygyne ants. Polygyne S. invicta workers also distinguished nestmates from foreigners, but their response was not as aggressive as that of monogynes. The proposed ethogram that we constructed identified monogyne and polygyne forms of S. invicta colonies in concordance with current measures, including number of queens, and expression of the Gp-9 gene.
Zoonotic potential of salmonella enterica carried by pet tortoises. The prevalence of Salmonella in chelonians is not known in the UK and it is not clear whether such Salmonella strains would be pathogenic for human beings. Some strains, such as members of the Arizonae subgroup, may be unable to cause anything more than very mild disease. To determine the carriage of Salmonella in pet tortoises, cloacal swabs were taken for culture. Salmonella enterica Group D was isolated from 5 of the 89 samples. All five were from the same household of seven tortoises. Salmonella isolates were shown by PCR to carry the invA and spiC genes associated with pathogenicity islands 1 and 2. Each isolate carried both genes indicating they had the genetic basis for disease and enterocyte invasion in human beings. The study indicates a low rate of asymptomatic carriage among the general population of pet tortoises. However, it does suggest that those Salmonella strains colonising the tortoise can carry Salmonella pathogenicity island (SPI)-1 and SPI-2 conferring the potential to cause disease in human beings and other animals.
Helicobacter pylori adaptation in vivo in response to a high-salt diet. Helicobacter pylori exhibits a high level of intraspecies genetic diversity. In this study, we investigated whether the diversification of H. pylori is influenced by the composition of the diet. Specifically, we investigated the effect of a high-salt diet (a known risk factor for gastric adenocarcinoma) on H. pylori diversification within a host. We analyzed H. pylori strains isolated from Mongolian gerbils fed either a high-salt diet or a regular diet for 4 months by proteomic and whole-genome sequencing methods. Compared to the input strain and output strains from animals fed a regular diet, the output strains from animals fed a highsalt diet produced higher levels of proteins involved in iron acquisition and oxidative-stress resistance. Several of these changes were attributable to a nonsynonymous mutation in fur (fur-R88H). Further experiments indicated that this mutation conferred increased resistance to high-salt conditions and oxidative stress. We propose a model in which a high-salt diet leads to high levels of gastric inflammation and associated oxidative stress in H. pylori-infected animals and that these conditions, along with the high intraluminal concentrations of sodium chloride, lead to selection of H. pylori strains that are most fit for growth in this environment.
Absent right superior vena cava with persistent left superior vena cava in a patient with COVID-19. Vascular injury associated with cannulation during extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) induction is a rare but life-threatening complication. The presence of abnormal vascular anatomy increases the risk of vascular injury and should be recognized before cannulation. We report the case of a patient with coronavirus disease (COVID-19) who was expected to undergo ECMO. By performing computed tomography (CT), we identified the absence of right superior vena cava (RSVC) with a persistent left superior vena cava (PLSVC) that could have caused serious complications associated with ECMO cannulation. PLSVC is observed in less than 0.5% of the general population; however, the combination of PLSVC and an absent RSVC in visceroatrial situs solitus is extremely rare. Attempting cannulation for Veno-venous (VV)-ECMO from the right (or left) internal jugular vein to the right atrium may cause serious complications. Cannulation may fail or lead to complications even in patients with inferior vena cava malformations. Although these vascular abnormalities are rare, it is possible to avoid iatrogenic vascular injury by identifying their presence in advance. Since anatomical variations in the vessels from the deep chest and abdominal cavity cannot be visualized using chest radiography and ultrasonography, we recommend CT, if possible, for patients with severe respiratory failure, including those with COVID-19, who may be considered for VV-ECMO induction.
Cost effectiveness of hepatitis c-related interventions targeting substance users and other high-risk groups: A systematic review. Background and Objective: In developed countries, injection drug users have the highest prevalence and incidence of hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. Clinicians and policy makers have several options for reducing morbidity and mortality related to HCV infection, including preventing new infections, screening high-risk populations, and optimizing uptake and delivery of antiviral therapy. Cost-effectiveness analyses provide an estimate of the value for money associated with adopting healthcare interventions. Our objective was to determine the cost effectiveness of hepatitis C interventions (prevention, screening, treatment) targeting substance users and other groups with a high proportion of substance users. Methods: We conducted a systematic search of MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, HealthSTAR and EconLit, and the grey literature. Studies were critically appraised using the Drummond and Jefferson, Neumann  and Philips  checklists. We developed and applied a quality appraisal instrument specific to cost-effectiveness analyses of HCV interventions. In addition, we summarized cost-effectiveness estimates using a single currency and year ($US, year 2009 values). Results: Twenty-one economic evaluations were included, which addressed prevention (three), screening (ten) and treatment (eight). The quality of the analyses varied greatly. A significant proportion did not incorporate important aspects of HCV natural history, disease costs and antiviral therapy. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) ranged from dominant (less costly and more effective) to $US603352 per QALY. However, many ICERs were less than $US100 000 per QALY. Screening and treatment interventions involving pegylated interferon and ribavirin were generally cost effective at the $US100 000 per QALY threshold, with the exception of some subgroups, such as immune compromised patients with genotype 1 infections. Conclusions: No clear consensus emerged from the studies demonstrating that prevention, screening or treatment provides better value for money as each approach can be economically attractive in certain subgroups. More high-quality economic evaluations of preventing, identifying and treating HCV infection in substance users are needed.
Cauda equina syndrome after spinal anaesthesia in a patient with asymptomatic tubercular arachnoiditis. A 14-year-old boy underwent emergency debridement surgery of right foot under spinal anaesthesia. Four hours after the surgery, the patient developed symptoms of cauda equina syndrome (CES). Postoperative magnetic resonance imaging of the patient's spine suggested underlying tubercular arachnoiditis. The boy was started on intravenous methylprednisolone and antitubercular therapy. He responded to the therapy and recovered completely in 2 weeks without any residual neurological deficits. We suggest that underlying pathological changes in the subarachnoid space due to tubercular arachnoiditis contributed to maldistribution of the local anaesthetic drug leading to CES.
Asynchronous Control of Stochastic Switched Boolean Control Networks With Piecewise-Homogeneous Dwell Time. In this article, the l&#x2081;-induced performance of the stochastic switched Boolean control network (BCN) is investigated. The switched signal is considered to follow a time-varying probability distribution, the switching of which is considered to have a random dwell time. The asynchronous state feedback control (SFC) is studied to achieve the control objective. This kind of control can avoid the failure of the control due to the inconsistency between the system mode and the control mode, so the results obtained are more general. Using the semitensor product of matrices, the algebraic form of the considered BCN is represented. Under this framework, sufficient conditions are obtained to ensure that the closed-loop system is stochastic stabilized with a prescribed l&#x2081;-induced performance level &#x0263;. Parameters can be solved by inequalities. In addition, when the dwell time converges to infinity, the probability distribution of the switched signal becomes fixed. Necessary and sufficient conditions are presented to ensure the stabilization of the closed system under asynchronous SFC as well as the design of the asynchronous SFC. Then, sufficient condition is obtained for the prescribed l&#x2081;-induced performance level. Examples are presented to show the effectiveness of the obtained results.
Cultivar differences in spatial root distribution during early growth in soil, and its relation to nutrient uptake - a study of wheat, onion and lettuce. Background and aims: A study was made to quantify early root development, soil exploitation and nutrient uptake in spring wheat, onion and lettuce, and their variation among cultivars. The goal was to study genetic variation in root traits making cultivars better adapted to organic production systems or other low-input systems. Methods: Six cultivars of each species were grown in transparent tubes to allow direct observation of early root growth. The tubes were 0.3 m deep, and 0.24 m in diameter. By placing the plants close to the edge rather than at the centre of the tubes, we could quantify the spatial distribution of the root systems as well as the general root growth and nutrient uptake. Results: Root growth of wheat and lettuce was faster than root growth of onion, and onion showed little capacity for horizontal root system development. Significant variation in early root growth and horizontal spread of the root system was found among cultivars of all three species. In general, cultivars with strong growth and high volume of soil exploitation showed higher average nutrient concentrations. Conclusion: Early shoot growth, root growth and nutrient uptake are intrinsically linked, making it difficult to determine whether improved root growth was the primary cause of improved performance. However, we did find cultivars where the strong root growth and superior root distribution seemed to be the driver for improved overall growth.
Optimal allocation and operation of sewer monitoring sites for wastewater-based disease surveillance: A methodological proposal. Wastewater-based epidemiology (WBE) is drawing increasing attention as a promising tool for an early warning of emerging infectious diseases such as COVID-19. This study demonstrated the utility of a spatial bisection method (SBM) and a global optimization algorithm (i.e., genetic algorithm, GA), to support better designing and operating a WBE program for disease surveillance and source identification. The performances of SBM and GA were compared in determining the optimal locations of sewer monitoring manholes to minimize the difference among the effective spatial monitoring scales of the selected manholes. While GA was more flexible in determining the spatial resolution of the monitoring areas, SBM allows stepwise selection of optimal sampling manholes with equiareal subcatchments and lowers computational cost. Upon detecting disease outbreaks at a regular sewer monitoring site, additional manholes within the catchment can be selected and monitored to identify source areas with a required spatial resolution. SBM offered an efficient method for rapidly searching for the optimal locations of additional sampling manholes to identify the source areas. This study provides strategic and technical elements of WBE including sampling site selection with required spatial resolution and a source identification method.
Introduction of Eurasian-origin influenza a(H8N4) virus into north America by migratory birds. We identified a Eurasian-origin influenza A(H8N4) virus in North America by sampling wild birds in western Alaska, USA. Evidence for repeated introductions of influenza A viruses into North America by migratory birds suggests that intercontinental dispersal might not be exceedingly rare and that our understanding of viral establishment is incomplete.
Ecological connectivity research in urban areas. The successful movement of individuals is fundamental to life. Facilitating these movements by promoting ecological connectivity has become a central theme in ecology and conservation. Urban areas contain more than half of the world's human population, and their potential to support biodiversity and to connect their citizens to nature is increasingly recognized. Promoting ecological connectivity within these areas is essential to reaching this potential. However, our current understanding of ecological connectivity within urban areas appears limited. We reviewed the published scientific literature to assess the state-of-the-art of ecological connectivity research in urban areas, summarized trends in study attributes and highlighted knowledge gaps. We found 174 papers that investigated ecological connectivity within urban areas. These papers addressed either structural (48) or functional connectivity (111), and some addressed both (15), but contained substantial geographic and taxonomic biases. These papers rarely defined the aspect of connectivity they were investigating and objective descriptions of the local urban context were uncommon. Formulated hypotheses or a priori predictions were typically unstated and many papers used suboptimal study designs and methods. We suggest future studies explicitly consider and quantify the landscape within their analyses and make greater use of available and rapidly developing tools and methods for measuring functional connectivity (e.g. biotelemetry or landscape genetics). We also highlight the need for studies to clearly define how the terms 'urban' and 'connectivity' have been applied. Knowledge gaps in ecological connectivity in urban areas remain, partly because the field is still in its infancy and partly because we must better capitalize on the state-of-the-art technological and analytical techniques that are increasingly available. Well-designed studies that employed high-resolution data and powerful analytical techniques highlight our abilities to quantify ecological connectivity in urban areas. These studies are exemplary, setting the standards for future research to facilitate data-driven and evidence-based biodiversity-friendly infrastructure planning in urban areas.
Progressive retinal atrophy in miniature longhaired dachshund dogs. A form of generalized progressive retinal atrophy unlike other previously recorded canine retinal dystrophies has been investigated in Miniature Longhaired Dachshund dogs. Segregation patterns in litters from matings involving affected individuals were consistent with simple autosomal recessive inheritance. The earliest ophthalmoscopic signs, appearing at approximately 6 months of age and coinciding in some cases with the onset of nyctalopia, included changes in the granular appearance of the tapetal fundus followed by generalized tapetal hyper-reflectivity and retinal vascular attenuation; later there was irregular loss of pigment in the non-tapetal fundus and optic atrophy. However, there was marked variation in the age of onset and progression of the disease, even within a single litter. The electroretinogram was normal in waveform and latency in four affected littermates at 10 weeks of age but by 9 months was markedly reduced in amplitude in two pups and virtually extinguished in the others. Significant histological changes at 10.5 weeks of age included thinning of the outer nuclear layer, irregularity and attenuation of the rod photoreceptor outer segments and early disorganization of the rod outer segment disc lamellae. By 25 weeks the photoreceptors were grossly degenerate with short rounded inner segments and only residual amounts of outer segment material remaining. This condition in the Miniature Longhaired Dachshund is later in onset than rod-cone dysplasia in Irish Setters but significantly earlier than progressive retinal atrophy in Tibetan Terriers and progressive rod-cone degeneration in, for example, Miniature Poodles. The condition could therefore serve as a potentially useful model for retinitis pigmentosa in man.
Social determinants of health and the Affordable Care Act. Healthy living is mainly seen as a product of good genetics and holistic healthcare in the United States, but a growing field of research is also attributing well-being to social determinants of health (SDH), which are the compounded effects that arise from the concentration or lack of social capital. The Affordable Care Act (ACA) was enacted to promote the overall health of the country and its clauses are calling to attention the health disparities that come from social inequalities, the main sources for SDH. The ACA acknowledges that SDH affects marginalized communities in different ways, and to mitigate their effects, it localizes funding in hopes of empowering individuals and communities, but there is no integrated, multi-prong system for addressing SDH.
Optimal residential load scheduling under utility and rooftop photovoltaic units. With the rapid advancement in technology, electrical energy consumption is increasing rapidly. Especially, in the residential sector, more than 80% of electrical energy is being consumed because of consumer negligence. This brings the challenging task of maintaining the balance between the demand and supply of electric power. In this paper, we focus on the problem of load balancing via load scheduling under utility and rooftop photovoltaic (PV) units to reduce electricity cost and peak to average ratio (PAR) in demand-side management. For this purpose, we adopted genetic algorithm (GA), binary particle swarm optimization (BPSO), wind-driven optimization (WDO), and our proposed genetic WDO (GWDO) algorithm, which is a hybrid of GA and WDO, to schedule the household load. For energy cost estimation, combined real-time pricing (RTP) and inclined block rate (IBR) were used. The proposed algorithm shifts load from peak consumption hours to off-peak hours based on combined pricing scheme and generation from rooftop PV units. Simulation results validate our proposed GWDO algorithm in terms of electricity cost and PAR reduction while considering all three scenarios which we have considered in this work: (1) load scheduling without renewable energy sources (RESs) and energy storage system (ESS), (2) load scheduling with RESs, and (3) load scheduling with RESs and ESS. Furthermore, our proposed scheme reduced electricity cost and PAR by 22.5% and 29.1% in scenario 1, 47.7% and 30% in scenario 2, and 49.2% and 35.4% in scenario 3, respectively, as compared to unscheduled electricity consumption.
Thermodynamic and economic analysis of the integration of high-temperature heat pumps in trigeneration systems. Polygeneration energy systems are proven to be a reliable, competitive and efficient solution for energy production. The recovery of otherwise wasted energy is the primary reason for the high efficiency of polygeneration systems. In this paper, the integration of a high-temperature heat pump within a trigeneration system is investigated. The heat pump uses the low-temperature heat from the condenser of the absorption chiller as heat source to produce hot water. A numerical model of the heat pump cycle is developed to evaluate the technical viability of current heat pump technology for this application and assess the performance of different working fluids. An exergy analysis is performed to show the advantages of the novel trigeneration system with respect to traditional systems for energy production. Moreover, a levelized cost of electricity method is applied to the proposed energy system to show its generic economic feasibility. Finally, actual energy demand data from an Italian pharmaceutical factory are considered to evaluate the economic savings obtainable with the integrated system, implemented in a case study. A two-level algorithm is proposed for the economic optimization of the investment. The synthesis/design problem is addressed by a genetic algorithm and the optimal operation problem is solved by a linear programming method. Results show that the integration of a high-temperature heat pump within a trigeneration system provides flexibility to cover variable energy demands and achieve valuable economic and energy performances, with global cost savings of around 40% with respect to separate production and around 10% with respect to traditional cogeneration and trigeneration systems.
Resistance of several wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) genotypes to fusarium graminearum schwabe cultivated in Chiapas, Mexico. Nine wheat genotypes were evaluated to determine its adaptation, yield and resistance to Fusarium graminearum, as well as grain contamination with micotoxins associated to this fungus. Two field experiments were established during 2001-2002 crop season, the first one under residual humidity at Ocozocouatla, and the second one under irrigation at Jiquipilas, both experiments were carried out under artificial inoculation. A Split plot design with a randomized complete block experimental design was used; in the main plot the effect of inoculation treatments (inoculation at heading and inoculation at milky grain stage) was evaluated; in the subplot the effect of six wheat genotypes was evaluated. Statistical differences were observed for grain yield between locations, genotypes and for the location-genotype interaction. No statistical differences were observed for inoculation treatments. The highest grain yield was obtained at Jiquipilas, with Rebeca F-2000; whereas in Ocozocoautla the best genotype was L-87. Regarding infection by Fusarium graminearum, there were significant differences between locations and between genotypes; Rebeca F-2000 was the most tolerant genotype to the disease. Mycotoxin contamination was not significant in both experiments.
Subdivision of Salmonella enteritidis PT 4 by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis: Potential for epidemiological surveillance. Using pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE), nine profile types were identified in XbaI digests of a panel of strains of Salmonella enteritidis phage type 4 (PT 4) isolated in England and Wales between 1967 and 1992. When applied to 39 isolates from humans, chickens, poultry products and feed, strains belonging to pulsed-field profile (PFP) 1 predominated. DNA-DNA hybridization studies demonstrated that a band of approximately 57 kb was associated with the presence of the 38 MDa S. enteritidis 'serovar-specific' plasmid. It is concluded that PFGE provides a method for discriminating strains of S. enteritidis PT 4 suitable for epidemiological investigations.
A new and unique species of the genus Aphanius Nardo, 1827 (Teleostei: Cyprinodontidae) from Southern Iran: A case of regressive evolution. A primarily vicariance-based speciation has been suggested for the killifish genus Aphanius Nardo, 1827, but ecological factors are likely to have promoted the speciation processes in addition. Here, we report on the discovery of a unique Aphanius species from Southern Iran and show that also regressive evolution has shaped the present-day diversity of Aphanius. The species is characterized by complete absence of scales and reduction in the biomineralization of hard structures, particularly of the caudal skeleton and jaw teeth. Based on mt-DNA sequences, morphometric and meristic data, osteology, jaw teeth and otoliths, it is described as Aphanius furcatus sp. n. The new species is sympatric with A. dispar (Rüppell, 1829) in salty rivers and hot sulphuric springs in the Hormuzgan Basin (Southern Iran), and is sister taxon to this species plus A. ginaonis Holly, 1929. Based on geological data we estimate that the divergence between the lineages of A. furcatus and A. dispar is about 12-14million years old. We conclude that the reductive phenomena observed in A. furcatus have evolved as an evolutionary response to the extreme habitat conditions in order to save energy (because storage of Ca2+ is not necessary), and to transport oxygen efficiently. The results confirm that regressive evolution is an important factor in speciation and occurs independently in separate lineages.
()On file and task placements and dynamic load balancing in distributed systems. Two distributed system problems, the file and task placement problem and the dynamic load balancing problem, are investigated in this paper. To find the placement of files and tasks at sites with minimal total communication overhead, we propose using the Simulated Annealing approach and multiple objective functions. Experimental results show that our proposed approach depicts superior performance with much less complexity over the previously introduced Genetic Algorithm approach. Dynamic load balancing is employed to equalize processor loads in a distributed system. It allows excessive tasks at a heavily loaded processor to be migrated to another processor with a light load during execution. To effectively lift up the acceptance rates for such task migration requests, we propose an efficient new scheme that yields much improved acceptance rates, followed by reduced unnecessary request messages and communication overhead, when compared with the standard sender-initiated scheme and the fairly complicated GA-based approach.
Long-term effects of low N rates on St. Augustinegrass cultivars. Current recommended nitrogen fertilization rates for St. Augustinegrass [Stenotaphrum secundatum (Walter) Kuntze] in South Florida range from 4 to 6 lb N per 1,000 ft2 per yr, applied throughout the year. Nevertheless, strict fertilizer ordinances are being passed by multiple counties in Florida, setting limits to the amount of N that can be applied to turfgrass areas, and establishing summer blackout periods for fertilizer applications; hence, there is a need to identify the minimum N rates to sustain St. Augustinegrass quality. A 4-yr study was conducted at the University of Florida's Fort Lauderdale Research and Education Center to assess the turfgrass quality of four St. Augustinegrass cultivars (‘CitraBlue’, ‘Floratam’, ‘Palmetto’, and ‘Raleigh’) grown on a Hallandale fine sand (siliceous, isohyperthermic Lithic Psammaquents) and fertilized at either 2.5 or 5 lb per 1,000 ft2 per yr. Plots were evaluated monthly for visual turfgrass quality, and yearly for genetic color, leaf texture, spring green-up, and summer density. CitraBlue had the highest turfgrass quality, color, and density. Differences were rarely detected among the other three cultivars. Nitrogen rates had an effect only on summer density, suggesting that St. Augustinegrass grown on Hallandale fine sand with 3.4% organic matter in South Florida could be managed with less N than is currently recommended without detrimental effects.
Cluster of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 infections linked to music clubs in Osaka, Japan. Background. It is important to understand the mode of transmission of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARSCoV-2) for disease control. We aimed to clarify how soon SARS-CoV-2 transmission can occur after infection by asymptomatically infected individuals. Methods. We analyzed the publicly available epidemiological information for a cluster of 108 cases of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) cases in Osaka, Japan. Results. Among cases, 51 cases attended a live music club only once and were considered to have a single visit. Ten remained asymptomatic at the time of COVID-19 diagnosis by reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction, which was on average 20 days after exposure. Three routes of secondary transmission were identified, with 2-4 days from infection to transmission. All index cases for secondary transmission were asymptomatic at the time of contact with other people. Based on the date of symptom onset in the remaining 41 cases, the period from exposure to illness ranged from 2 to 17 days. Conclusions. Seemingly healthy people could spread SARS-CoV-2 during intense activities in enclosed environments without sufficient ventilation. Asymptomatically infected persons can transmit the virus as soon as 2 days after infection. Continuous efforts to avoid crowding and to maintain personal hygiene are needed for effective control of COVID-19.
An approach based on the SIR epidemic model and a genetic algorithm for optimizing product feature combinations in feature fatigue analysis. Integrating more features into one product makes the product more attractive, thereby increasing the product’s initial sales; however, after having worked with the high-feature product, customers become dissatisfied with the usability problems caused by too many features. This phenomenon is called “feature fatigue”. Feature fatigue will lead to negative Word-Of-Mouth, which damages the brand’s long-term profit and ultimately decreases the manufacturer’s customer equity (CE). To alleviate feature fatigue, it is imperative for designers to decide what features should be integrated to balance initial revenue and long-term profit so as to maximize CE. In this paper, a novel approach based on the SIR epidemic model and a genetic algorithm is proposed to help designers find an optimal feature combination that maximizes CE. Firstly, the SIR epidemic model is utilized to analyze customer purchase behavior under different feature combinations. CE can thus be calculated according to customer purchase analysis. Then a genetic algorithm is adopted to search an optimal feature combination, in which CE is used as the fitness function. Finally, a case example is illustrated to prove the effectiveness of the proposed approach.
The Moran process on 2-chromatic graphs. Resources are rarely distributed uniformly within a population. Heterogeneity in the concentration of a drug, the quality of breeding sites, or wealth can all affect evolutionary dynamics. In this study, we represent a collection of properties affecting the fitness at a given location using a color. A green node is rich in resources while a red node is poorer. More colors can represent a broader spectrum of resource qualities. For a population evolving according to the birth-death Moran model, the first question we address is which structures, identified by graph connectivity and graph coloring, are evolutionarily equivalent. We prove that all properly two-colored, undirected, regular graphs are evolutionarily equivalent (where “properly colored” means that no two neighbors have the same color). We then compare the effects of background heterogeneity on properly two-colored graphs to those with alternative schemes in which the colors are permuted. Finally, we discuss dynamic coloring as a model for spatiotemporal resource fluctuations, and we illustrate that random dynamic colorings often diminish the effects of background heterogeneity relative to a proper two-coloring.
Suppression of methionine mutants in Coprinus - I. Complementation and allele specificity as criteria of suppressor gene action. The met-1-1 mutation in Coprinus lagopus is known to be suppressed by five recessive non-allelic suppressor genes (sup-1 to sup-5). Two of these genes complement normally in heterozygotes but the other three fail to complement each other in any combination. Four of the suppressor genes, sup-1, sup-2, sup-3 and sup-5, were tested for ability to suppress met-1-2 a second met-1 mutation. Non-identity of the two met-1 alleles was first confirmed by demonstrating intragenic recombination. The complementing suppressors, sup-1 and sup-2, proved to be allele unspecific and suppressed both met-1 mutations. The non-complementing suppressors, sup-3 and sup-5, were allele specific and could only suppress the met-1-1 mutation. This is interpreted to mean that sup-1 and sup-2 act indirectly to circumvent the metabolic lesion caused by any met-1 mutation whereas sup-3 and sup-5 are missense informational suppressors involving modified tRNA species which specifically mistranslate the met-1-1 mutant codon.
Prevalence of Escherichia coli O157 and Salmonella spp. in solid bovine manure in California using real-time quantitative PCR. The occurrence of Escherichia coli O157 and Salmonella spp. in solid bovine manure was investigated through a multi-county survey in California. Solid bovine manure samples (n = 91) were collected from 13 dairy farms located in multiple counties in California between June 2016 and August 2017. To quantify pathogens, DNA was extracted from bacteria in manure samples. Afterwards, the prevalence and levels of E. coli O157 and Salmonella spp. in solid bovine manure were determined by real-time quantitative PCR (qPCR). The prevalence of E. coli O157 and Salmonella spp. in solid bovine manure was 15·4 and 6·6% respectively. Escherichia coli O157 and Salmonella spp. levels in positive samples ranged from 3·1 to 5·3 log CFU per g and from positive (the population was <3 log CFU per g) to 5·2 log CFU per g respectively. Surface samples of manure piles had higher prevalence and levels of E. coli O157 and Salmonella spp. than subsurface samples, while no seasonal effects on pathogen occurrence were observed. Our results indicated that solid bovine manure is a source of E. coli O157 and Salmonella spp. and the application of untreated manure as biological soil amendments may pose potential risks to public health. Significance and Impact of the Study: Our findings suggested that the presence of Escherichia coli O157 and Salmonella spp. in solid bovine manure may pose potential risks if untreated manure is applied as biological soil amendments. Considering the large-scale sampling used in this study, the observations provide a holistic assessment in terms of pathogen prevalence in solid bovine manure.
Influence of weed management practices on growth, nutrient uptake and economics of direct seeded rice genotypes. Plant height, tillers m-2, leaf area index (LAI) and dry matter accumulation in plants were significantly higher in plots getting weed free environment closely followed by post emergence application of bispyribac sodium @ 25 g a.i. ha-1 at 2-4 leaf stage of weeds and tank mixture of azimsulfuron @ 17.5 g a.i. ha-1 + bispyribac sodium @ 12.5 g a.i. ha-1 at 20 DAS. However, genotype JKPH-3333 showed significantly higher N, P2O5 and K2O uptake by rice plant. Weed population and weed dry matter were significantly higher in BPT-5204 but least weed population, dry matter and good weed control efficiency were accounted with weed free check and bispyribac sodium @ 25 g a.i. ha-1 though the nutrient concentration were affected significantly both due to genotypes and weed management practices. Nutrient uptake due to weed was higher in BPT-5204. Amongst the weed management methods, the nutrient uptake of weeds were least in weed free check followed by herbicides bispyribac sodium applied at 2-4 leaf stage of weeds and tank mixture of Azimsulfuron + Bispyribac sodium at 20 DAS. Higher gross return, net return and B:C ratio recorded with BPT-5204 because of its higher market price.
Determination of bioremediation properties of soil-borne Bacillus sp. 5O5Y11 and its effect on the development of Zea mays in the presence of copper. Today, industrial activities lead to the accumulation of heavy metals in the soil, water, and air due to mine deposits and operations, fertilizers, and drugs used in agriculture, and urban wastes. Using microorganism bioremediation of metals is an important technique in solving these problems. Herein, a rhizoid bacterium isolated from orchids that grow in Ovit plateau was defined as Bacillus sp. 5O5Y11 by conventional and molecular methods and the bioremediation properties of strain were investigated. It was capable of growth at high salt (10–15%) concentration, wide temperature (10–45 °C) and pH range (pH 4.5–8.0), and was observed to have strong lecithinase, gelatinase activity, and nitrate reduction. When the plant growth-promoting properties of this strain were examined, strong siderophore and ammonium production were observed in in vitro conditions. Bacillus sp. 5O5Y11 was found to have high tolerance to a group of heavy metals [iron (Fe), copper (Cu), lead (Pb), silver (Ag), zinc (Zn)]. Minimum inhibition concentration (MIC) and minimum bactericidal concentration (MBC) values of copper metal on Bacillus sp. 5O5Y11 were determined as 12.5 mM and 50 mM, respectively. The effectiveness of this bacterium on the germination and growth of maize plant in the presence and absence of copper were investigated. These results suggest that Bacillus sp. 5O5Y11 is a microorganism, which has potential in metal bioremediation and plant growth promotion.
Response of submerged plant (Vallisneria spinulosa) clones to lead stress in the heterogenous soil. In order to evaluate risk spreading among clones and antioxidant defence response of clonal ramets, turions of Vallisneria spinulosa, the dominant clonal plant of the submerged plant community in most of the lakes in Middle and Lower Reaches of Yangtze Rive, China, were planted in the heterogeneous soils contaminated with 40 and 160 μg g-1 Pb (dry weight) in a greenhouse. After 100 d, the ranking order of tissue Pb concentrations in organs of the ortets (parental plants) was root > turion > rhizome > leaf, but that of tissue Pb quantities was leaf > turion > rhizome > root, due to their different biomass. Some of Pb was transferred from the ortets exposed in the Pb-supplied soil to leaves of the offspring growing in the favorable patch through rhizome (connective organ). A high foliar Pb concentration induced a significant decrease in superoxide dismutases, peroxidase and catalase activities. Catalase was more sensitive to Pb than the other two antioxidant enzymes. However, a low foliar Pb concentration, in the ortets exposed to 40 μg g-1 Pb and in all of the offspring, slightly increased the activities of superoxide dismutases and peroxidase. The biomass accumulation per ortet and the biomasses percentages allocation to the roots and the leaves in Pb treatments decreased markedly. Nevertheless, there was no significant difference in biomass accumulation of the offspring between the low Pb level treatment and the control. The biomass percentage allocated to the root of the offspring was found to be larger than that of the ortets.
Characterization of the complete chloroplast genome of mangrove Bruguiera gymnorrhiza (L.) Lam. ex Savigny. The chloroplast (cp) genome sequence of Bruguiera gymnorrhiza was characterized. The cp genome length was 163,795 bp in length, with a GC content of 35.3%, containing a large single copy (LSC) of 90,830 bp, a small single copy (SSC) of 20,207 bp, and a pair of inverted repeats (IRs) of 26,379 bp. The genome contained 121 genes, including 84 protein-coding genes, 37 tRNA genes, and 8 rRNA genes. A phylogenetic analysis using cp genomes of mangroves and ecologically associated species resolved B. gymnorrhiza in Bruguiera with B. sexangula var. rhynchopetala. This complete chloroplast sequence offers a promising tool for further species identification and evolutionary studies of Bruguiera, as well as for mangroves.
Inheritance of egusi seed type in watermelon. An unusual seed mutant in watermelon (Citrullus lanatus var. lanatus) has seeds with a fleshy pericarp, commonly called egusi seeds. The origin of the phenotype is unknown, but it is widely cultivated in Nigeria for the high protein and carbohydrate content of the edible seeds. Egusi seeds have a thick, fleshy pericarp that appears during the second to third week of fruit development. We studied the inheritance of this phenotype in crosses of normal seeded Charleston Gray and Calhoun Gray with two plant introduction accessions, PI 490383w and PI 560006, having the egusi seed type. We found that the egusi seed type is controlled by a single recessive gene, and the symbol eg was assigned.
The status of Florida pompano, Trachinotus carolinus, as a commercially ready species for U.S. marine aquaculture. Owing to their high value, in the 1950s researchers and commercial ventures began investigating the potential of Florida pompano, Trachinotus carolinus, for aquaculture; however, initial efforts did not result in commercialization. In the early 2000s, a renewed interest in pompano as a candidate for aquaculture occurred, and over the last two decades, protocols have been developed that have allowed commercialization of pompano aquaculture. Florida pompano broodstock can be readily conditioned to spawn (26–28°C) to produce large numbers of fertilized eggs year-round via hormonally induced volitional tank spawning. Larval rearing is straight forward using a standard feeding regime of rotifers, then Artemia, followed by co-feeding and weaning to microparticulate diets with metamorphosis occurring at approximately 18–25 days post hatch. Pompano readily consume formulated diets and growout of juveniles to produce marketable fish for consumption is fairly rapid (<12 months) and has been achieved mainly via recirculating aquaculture system technologies and ocean net pens. To expand industry development, there is an ongoing need for research directed towards topics including broodstock domestication, selective breeding, and genetic improvement; delayed maturation; diet development and refinement; disease management; economics and business planning; and marketing strategies.
Micromorphological terms: The state of the art in soil microfabric research. The development of the terminology in the field of soil micromorphology reflected a well-known contradiction between two approaches-the genetic and interpretational versus the substantive and morphological-which ended with a compromise in the form of the international Handbook for Soil Thin Sections Description published in 1985. This handbook was widely used around the world. Later on, several changes were introduced into it, and it was updated in the new monograph by G. Stoops. Recently, a list of the main terms appeared on the Internet in 16 languages. The authors of this paper created the Russian version of these terms, which stimulated the further discussion of the nomenclature and concepts in the field of soil micromorphology in Russia. The comparative analysis of the micromorphological terminology presented in this paper may be useful for micromorphologists to improve the description and interpretation of thin sections and for a wider range of specialists in soil science and related sciences to adequately assess the options of using micromorphology in their research.
Prediction of machining fixture layout through FEM and ANN and comparison of optimal fixture layouts of GA and ACA. In machine manufacturing, workholding plays a vital role in immobilizing the workpiece to provide maximum accuracy. The workpiece should be securely located and held against the cutting tool to reduce workpiece deformation thereby reducing dimensional and form errors. Fixtures are workholding devices used in machining and assembly for holding, supporting and locating a workpiece in a given orientation. Fixturing elements such as locators and clamps are used to deprive the workpiece of all degrees of freedom so that it is constrained at all times to prevent any movement. The optimal positioning of locators and clamps highly influences the workpiece deformation and thereby the machining errors. A two-dimensional workpiece geometry involving a slot milling operation has been considered for the research work for which the workpiece deformation for different fixture layouts is determined using finite element method (FEM). The different layouts and the corresponding workpiece deformations from the simulation results are made available as the database for artificial neural network (ANN) to develop a numerical model that recognizes a pattern between the position of fixturing elements and the workpiece deformations. Using the recognized pattern from ANN, genetic algorithm (GA) based continuous optimization method and ant colony algorithm (ACA) based continuous optimization method have been used to determine the optimal position of locators and clamps to minimize the workpiece deformation and thereby the dimensional errors.
First-trimester determination of fetal gender by ultrasound. Objective. To assess the accuracy of fetal sex determination at 11-14 weeks of gestation. Methods. Fetal gender assessment by ultrasound was prospectively carried out in 172 singleton pregnancies at 11-14 weeks of gestation immediately before chorionic villus sampling for karyotyping. The genital region was examined in a midsagittal plane and the fetal gender was assigned as male if the angle of the genital tubercle to a horizontal line through the lumbosacral skin surface was greater than 30°and female when the genital tubercle was parallel or convergent (less than 30°) to the horizontal line. Results. The accuracy of sex determination increased with gestation from 70.3% at 11 weeks, to 98.7% at 12 weeks and 100% at 13 weeks. In the male fetuses, there was a significant increase in the angle of the genital tubercle from the horizontal with crown-rump length. Male fetuses were wrongly assigned as female in 56% of cases at 11 weeks, 3% at 12 weeks and O% at 13 weeks. In contrast, only 5% of the female fetuses at 11 weeks were incorrectly assigned as male and this false-positive rate was 0% at 12 and 13 weeks. Conclusion. The clinical value of determination of fetal sex by ultrasound is in deciding whether to carry out pre-natal invasive testing in pregnancies at risk of sex-linked genetic abnormalities, because invasive testing would be necessary only in pregnancies with male fetuses. Our results suggest that a final decision on invasive testing for sex-linked conditions should be undertaken only after 12 weeks of gestation.
Transmission of acquired adjustments to salinity in Sorghum bicolor. Previous studies showed that exposure of eight-day-old Sorghum bicolor for three weeks to sublethal salinity induces an increase in salinity tolerance, called physiological adaptation (A). During A, plants of a same population differ in reaction and tolerance to salinity. Tolerance levels of the reaction types depend on environmental conditions besides salinity. Reactions observed most frequently in an experiment have generally highest tolerance levels. This phenomenon is defined adaptive determinism (AD). In this study, the relationship between a potential source of the information subjacent to AD and AD itself is analysed in plants first exposed to salt-inducing A. When the reaction types are close variations of one reaction mode, AD is highest. This relationship is inversed in progeny of adapted plants. Results suggest that information relevant to AD is transmitted to the progeny of adapted plants, and that adaptive information is created during A in plants first exposed to adaptation inducing treatment.
TMP synthetase from lactobacillus casei. This chapter describes the purification procedure of thymidylate synthetase (TMP synthetase) enzyme from Lactobacillus casei organism. The methylenetetrahydrofolate-dependent reductive methylation of deoxyuridine monophosphate (dUMP) is followed spectrophotometrically at 340 nm by observing the formation of 7, 8-dihydrofolate. Enzyme activity is measured by monitoring the progress of the reaction through the loss of tritium to the aqueous solvent from [5-3H]dUMP or by the use of a filter assay that traps the 5-fluorodUMP-methylenetetrahydrofolatethymidylate synthetase ternary complex. An amethopterin-resistant strain of Lactobacillus casei is obtained as described by culturing Lactobaciilus casei var. rhamnosus (ATCC 7469) in the presence of the increasing levels of amethopterin until the bacteria grew readily in media containing a drug concentration of 1 × 10-5 M. Native thymidylate synthetase has a molecular weight of approximately 70,000 based on analytical polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and gel filtration chromatography. The enzyme is stable over a period of months when stored at 0–5 ° in the presence of 10 mM 2-mercaptoethanol in capped vessels layered with argon.
Structure of a major glycolipid from Thermus oshimai NTU-063. The structure of a major glycolipid isolated from the thermophilic bacteria Thermus oshimai NTU-063 was elucidated. The sugar and fatty acid compositions were determined by GC-MS and HPLC analysis on their methanolysis and methylation derivatives, respectively. After removal of both O- and N-acyl groups by alkaline treatment, the glycolipid was converted to a fully acetylated tetraglycosyl glycerol derivative, the structure of which was then determined by NMR spectroscopy (TOCSY, HSQC, HMBC). Thus, the complete structure of the major glycolipid from T. oshimai NTU-063 was established as β-Glcp-(1→6)- β-Glcp-(1→6)-β-GlcpNAcyl-(1→2)-α-Glcp-(1→1) -glycerol diester. The N-acyl groups on the 2-amino-2-deoxy-glucopyranose residue are C 15:0 and C 17:0 fatty acids, whereas the fatty acids of glycerol diester are more heterogeneous including both straight and branched fatty acids from C 15:0 to C 18:0.
The associations of body image, anxiety, and smoking among Mexican-origin youth. Purpose: Among Mexican-origin teenagers, anxiety is associated with cigarette experimentation, while among girls and young women from other ethnic groups the desire to be thin is associated with smoking. However, little is known about the associations of body image concerns with smoking in Mexican-origin youth, particularly when accounting for anxiety. Methods: In 2005-2006, 1,328 Mexican-origin adolescents aged 11 to 13 years enrolled in a cohort study to examine nongenetic and genetic factors associated with cigarette experimentation. In 2008-2009, 1,154 participants completed a follow-up when they reported their smoking status, anxiety, and body image. Height and weight were measured. In 2010-2011, 1,001 participants completed another follow-up when they reported their smoking status. Multivariate multinomial regression models were computed to examine associations between smoking behavior assessed in 2010-2011 and body image score, anxiety, and body mass index assessed in 2008-2009, controlling for gender, country of birth, age, and parental education. Results: Of the 892 participants with complete data, 48% were boys, 74% were U.S.-born and in 2008-2009, were 14.29 years (SD = 1) old. Having smoked less than a whole cigarette was associated with being male (OR = 1.53), older age (OR = 1.42), a body mass index <85th percentile (OR = 1.93), and poor body image (OR = 1.12). Having smoked more than one cigarette was associated with being male (OR = 3.54), older age (OR = 1.86), anxiety (OR = 1.04), and poor body image (OR = 1.11). Conclusions: Poor body image and anxiety were independently associated with cigarette experimentation among Mexican-origin youth. Implications for the design of culturally appropriate smoking prevention messages are discussed.
Pericarp thickness of Korean maize landraces. Thin pericarp is one of crucial selection criteria for high-tender waxy corn hybrid development. A pericarp thickness of 2414 maize landrace accessions including 87 public waxy inbred lines was investigated to select accessions with thin pericarp and to broaden genetic diversity among waxy corn cultivars. Observed pericarp thickness of the 2414 accessions ranged from 16.0 ± 1.56 to 139.2 ± 39.55 m with the average of 47.7 ± 13.15 m. More than half of the accessions were below the suggested thickness of <50 m for high-tender waxy corn hybrid development. Large sample size resulted in significant differences among endosperm types and among collection provinces. This, however, may not translate into considerable difference in tenderness since most averages of different types and collection provinces were <50 m. Positive correlation (r = 0.55) between the average and standard deviation of pericarp thickness implied that more samples are needed to achieve same level of precision when it comes to selection for thick pericarp than that for thin pericarp. Top 10% thin-pericarped waxy landrace accessions were intercrossed to form a new waxy corn population from this result.
Public-private collaborations and partnerships in stratified medicine: Making sense of new interactions. The field of personalised or stratified medicine is evolving alongside the formation of a plethora of public/private partnerships and collaborations. These new institutional forms, or 'social technologies', are varied and emerge in response to several drivers, including the need to draw on a broader base of data inputs relating to genomics, patient behaviour and healthcare system differentiation. This paper discusses some of these drivers of partnerships and collaborations. Although the number of such partnerships is growing, their rationale and basis for collaboration remains unclear. Public-private collaborations are at the core of the set of new life sciences policies in the UK but there is little indication in the policy documents of clear boundaries for these partnerships. In part, this is due to the lack of empirical evidence at the system level for conceptualising what is still a relatively new approach. The collection of evidence in the form of broad evaluations, rather than tightly focused theoretical studies, is more likely to be related back to systems and be of more use for formulating policy rationales.
Applications of probabilistic causal network in fault diagnosis of turbine machinery. Based on analysis of vibration fault of the turbine machinery, applications of genetic algorithm in fault diagnosis were researched and the probabilistic causal network of fault diagnosis was made. The mathematics equation to solve the problem of fault diagnosis, the fault sets, manifestation sets, relation intensity and experience probability of the rotating machinery, such as turbine machinery were given. The mathematics model of fault diagnosis of turbine machinery by genetic algorithm was established, and the minimum value sets of formula corresponding to the relating fault and manifestation sets were put forwarded. The availability of this method was proved by a fault diagnosis example of turbine machinery. The results show that the genetic diagnosis model proposed can be used for multi-fault diagnosis together, and may make up shortage for some of expert systems and neural networks in some aspect. From the practices, this is a good way of fault diagnosis of rotating machinery.
Trade-offs between seed output and life span - a quantitative comparison of traits between annual and perennial congeneric species. Perennial plants allocate more resources belowground, thus sustaining important ecosystem services. Hence, shifting from annual to perennial crops has been advocated towards a more sustainable agriculture. Nevertheless, wild perennial species have lower seed production than selected annuals, raising the questions of whether there is a fundamental trade-off between reproductive effort and life span, and whether such trade-off can be overcome through selection. In order to address these questions and to isolate life span from phylogenetic and environmental factors, we conducted a meta-analysis encompassing c. 3000 congeneric annual/perennial pairs from 28 genera. This meta-analysis is complemented with a minimalist model of long-term productivity in perennial species. Perennials allocate more resources belowground and less to seeds than congeneric annuals, independently of selection history. However, existing perennial wheat and rice could achieve yields similar to annuals if they survived three years and each year doubled their biomass, as other perennial grasses do. Selected perennial crops maintain the large belowground allocation of wild perennials, and thus can provide desired regulatory ecosystem services. To match the seed yield of annuals, biomass production of perennial grains must be increased to amounts attained by some perennial grasses - if this goal can be met, perennial crops can provide a more sustainable alternative to annuals.
Quality of life improvement in resource-limited settings after one year of second-line antiretroviral therapy use among adult men and women. Objective: We evaluated improvement of quality of life (QoL) after 1 year of second-line antiretroviral therapy (ART) use in resource-limited settings (RLS) among adult men and women, comparing two randomized treatment arms. Design: The AIDS Clinical Trial Group A5273 was a randomized clinical trial of second-line ART comparing lopinavir/ritonavir (LPV/r) + raltegravir with LPV/r + nucleos(t)ide reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) in participants failing a non-NRTI-containing regimen at 15 sites in nine RLS. Participants completed the AIDS Clinical Trial Group short-form-21 which has eight QoL domains with a standard score ranging from 0 (worst) to 100 (best). Methods: Differences in QoL by randomized arm, as well as by demographic and clinical variables, were evaluated by regression models for baseline and week 48 QoL scores fitted using the generalized estimating equations method. Results: A total of 512 individuals (49% men, median age 39 years) were included. A total of 512 and 492 participants had QoL assessments at baseline and week 48, respectively. QoL improved significantly from baseline to week 48 (P < 0.001 for all domains). There was no significant difference between treatment arms for any domain. Individuals with higher viral load and lower CD4 + cell count at baseline had lower mean QoL at baseline but larger improvements such that mean QoL was similar at week 48. Conclusion: Improvements in QoL were similar after starting second-line ART of LPV/r combined with either raltegravir or NRTIs in RLS. QoL scores at baseline were lower among participants with worse disease status prior to starting second-line, but after 1 year similar QoL scores were achieved.
Pilgrimage through the eyes of the Irish 'Traveller' Community. This paper is based on a keynote paper presented at an international conference entitled Tourism, Religion and Culture in Lecce, Italy in 2009. The main focus is on the Irish 'Traveller' Community, which numbers in the region of 22,369 persons (CSO, 2007). This subset of the Irish population is a unique, indigenous ethnic minority with their own shared history, culture, values, customs, traditions and even language. For the purpose of comparison, they are considered to be similar to Roma and Gipsy peoples throughout Europe, though recent genetics and DNA research suggests that their claim to be a unique/native group to Ireland, may indeed be founded in fact (Hough, 2011).
Recombinant flagellin A proteins from Borrelia burgdorferi sensu stricto, B. afzelii, and B. garinii in serodiagnosis of Lyme borreliosis. Genes for flagellin A (FlaA) proteins from European borrelial strains of Borrelia burgdorferi sensu stricto, B. afzelii, and B. garinii were cloned and sequenced. An identity of 92 to 93% was observed in the flaA sequences of the different species. Polyhistidine-tagged recombinant FlaA (rFlaA) proteins were produced in Escherichia coli and used as antigens in Western blotting (WB) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). In immunoglobulin G (IgG) WB, 71% (10 of 14) of the sera from neuroborreliosis and 86% (12 of 14) of those from Lyme arthritis patients reacted with one to three rFlaAs. In IgG ELISA, 74% (14 of 19) and 79% (15 of 19) of patients with neuroborreliosis and arthritis, respectively, were positive. The immunoreactivity in local European patient sera was stronger against rFlaA from B. garinii and B. afzelii than against rFlaA from B. burgdorferi sensu stricto. Neither IgG nor IgM ELISA was sensitive in the serodiagnosis of erythema migrans. Serum samples from patients with syphilis and systemic lupus erythematosus showed mild cross-reactivity in IgG tests. Sera from Yersinia enterocolitica or beta-hemolytic Streptococcus infections showed only occasional responses. With IgM ELISA, 58% (11 of 19) and 37% (7 of 19) of patients with neuroborreliosis and arthritis, respectively, were positive. Cross-reactive antibodies to FlaA, especially in serum samples from patients with rheumatoid factor positivity and Epstein-Barr virus infection, reduced the specificity of IgM serodiagnosis. Therefore, rFlaA seems to have a limited role for IgM serodiagnosis, yet rFlaA might be useful in the IgG serodiagnosis of disseminated Lyme borreliosis.
Quantitative assessment of Naegleria fowleri and Escherichia coli concentrations within a Texas reservoir. Previous presence/absence studies have indicated a correlation between the presence of the pathogenic amoeba Naegleria fowleri and the presence of bacteria, such as the fecal indicator Escherichia coli, in environmental surface waters. The objective of this study was to use quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) methodologies to measure N. fowleri and E. Coli concentrations within a Texas reservoir in late summer, and to determine if concentrations of N. fowleri and E. Coli were statistically correlated. N. fowleri was detected in water samples from 67% of the reservoir sites tested, with concentrations ranging up to an estimated 26 CE (cell equivalents)/ 100 mL. E. Coli was detected in water samples from 60% of the reservoir sites tested, with concentrations ranging up to 427 CE/100 mL. In this study, E. Coli concentrations were not indicative of N. fowleri concentrations.
Focusing HIV prevention on those most likely to transmit the virus. Despite some success in reducing HIV incidence, the global epidemic continues to grow. For every person with AIDS in developing countries placed on treatment in 2005, many others were newly infected. We need more effective prevention programs that focus interventions on those most at risk for HIV transmission (MART), particularly those with 1) high behavioral risk and 2) high viral loads due to acute or recent infection, co-infections with other diseases, high viral set points, or untreated AIDS. This article provides examples of how prevention programs can incorporate emerging testing technologies and social/behavioral approaches to reach these individuals, their partners, and the social networks where active transmission is occurring.
Relationship and career challenges faced by people infected with HIV in Malaysia. Background: In Malaysia, there are still lack of studies related to the challenges of people infected with HIV (PIWH). Therefore, this study was conducted to explore the experiences of PIWH and how they cope with HIV. Methods: This qualitative study was based on a social constructivist and grounded theory approach. A total of 12 PIWH were selected by purposive sampling, all of whom participated in semi-structured and audio-recorded interviews, which were supported with non-participant observations and diary entries on three occasions for each participant. The interviews and diaries were transcribed and analysed using the grounded theory approach, which was assisted by utilizing NVIVO-8 to identify the themes related to the experiences of the participants. Results: PIWH experienced challenges related to their career and relationships with family and others. These challenges led to difficulties in gaining employment and career development, as well as feelings of denial, being uncomfortable, rejection, and labelling. They found that their lives were totally and dramatically changed after being tested positive for HIV. Conclusions: Among PIWH, HIV impacted relationships with significant others and career development. The absence of support and acceptance from significant others affected the ability of PIWH to cope with their daily challenges. The results of this study have implications for policymakers in terms of gaining sufficient knowledge and awareness to provide prevention programmes for HIV/AIDS.
Improved dubins curve algorithm for route planning with constraint of obstacles in plant protection UAV. Plant protection unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) technology is currently attracting increasing attention worldwide. However, few route-planning algorithms have been applied to plant protection UAV spray operations in a large area with obstacles. To solve this problem, in this paper, an improved Dubins curve algorithm considering the route length and the overlap and skip area was proposed for route planning with the constraint of obstacles. After selecting the appropriate Dubins curve to generate the obstacle avoidance route, the genetic algorithm (GA) was used to search for the shortest route among the flyable routes. Then, the derivation formula of the overlap and skip area based on the obstacle avoidance route planning algorithm was obtained. Finally, simulations showed that the increase in obstacle avoidance route length was kept within 6%, whereas the decrease in the overlap and skip area was more than 230% under the same conditions compared with the traditional obstacle avoidance algorithm. Moreover, it was proven that the route planning algorithm remained valid even if the size of the obstacle and the minimum turning radius of the UAV change. The experimental results proved though there were minor errors when tracking the proposed obstacle avoidance route, the obstacle avoidance path planning can make UAV complete the spraying task and stay safe.
Organogenesis and Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation of Eucalyptus saligna with P5CS gene. The purpose of this research was Eucalyptus saligna in vitro regeneration and transformation with P5CSF129A gene, which encodes Δ1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthetase (P5CS), the key enzyme in proline biosynthesis. After selection of the most responsive genotype, shoot organogenesis was induced on leaf explants cultured on a callus induction medium (CI) followed by subculture on a shoot induction medium (SI). Shoots were subsequently cultured on an elongation medium (BE), then transferred to a rooting medium and finally transplanted to pots and acclimatized in a greenhouse. For genetic transformation, a binary vector carrying P5CSF129A and uidA genes, both under control of the 35SCaMV promoter, was used. Leaves were co-cultured with Agrobacterium tumefaciens in the dark on CI medium for 5 d. The explants were transferred to the selective callogenesis inducing medium (SCI) containing kanamycin and cefotaxime. Calli developed shoots that were cultured on an elongation medium for 14 d and finally multiplied. The presence of the transgene in the plant genome was demonstrated by PCR and confirmed by Southern blot analysis. Proline content in the leaves was four times higher in transformed than in untransformed plants while the proline content in the roots was similar in both types of plants.
Environmental filtering and phylogenetic clustering correlate with the distribution patterns of cryptic protist species. The community composition of any group of organisms should theoretically be determined by a combination of assembly processes including resource partitioning, competition, environmental filtering, and phylogenetic legacy. Environmental DNA studies have revealed a huge diversity of protists in all environments, raising questions about the ecological significance of such diversity and the degree to which they obey to the same rules as macroscopic organisms. The fast-growing cultivable protist species on which hypotheses are usually experimentally tested represent only a minority of the protist diversity. Addressing these questions for the lesser known majority can only be inferred through observational studies. We conducted an environmental DNA survey of the genus Nebela, a group of closely related testate (shelled) amoeba species, in different habitats within Sphagnum-dominated peatlands. Identification based on the mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase 1 gene, allowed species-level resolution as well as phylogenetic reconstruction. Community composition varied strongly across habitats and associated environmental gradients. Species showed little overlap in their realized niche, suggesting resource partitioning, and a strong influence of environmental filtering driving community composition. Furthermore, phylogenetic clustering was observed in the most nitrogen-poor samples, supporting phylogenetic inheritance of adaptations in the group of N. guttata. This study showed that the studied free-living unicellular eukaryotes follow to community assembly rules similar to those known to determine plant and animal communities; the same may be true for much of the huge functional and taxonomic diversity of protists.
Physicochemical and microbiological assessment of soil quality on a chronosequence of a mine reclamation site. Assessment of the activity of the soil microbial community is essential to evaluate the success of reclamation. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of reclamation on soil physiochemical, biological and microbial community properties. Soil samples were collected from 12 post-mining sites with different lengths of time since reclamation (2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 9, 11, 16, 19, 21, 23 and 26 years) at Pingshuo surface coal mine, China. Our results indicated soil organic and labile carbon, nitrogen, enzyme activities, microbial functional diversity, bacterial, archaeal and fungal abundances and taxonomic diversity improved with increasing time since reclamation. Soil pH and bulk density declined with increasing time after reclamation. Redundancy analysis revealed the importance of soil pH in microbial metabolic structure and bacterial genetic assemblages, and soil organic carbon in fungal genetic assemblages. The mine soil quality index (MSQI) was positively correlated with time since reclamation, and reclamation could be considered satisfactory at the 19-year site with an MSQI >0.5. Soil enzyme activities were strongly correlated with microbial abundance. Our overall findings indicated that nutrition, microbial abundance and functional diversity of the soil ecosystem improved after reclamation. Highlights: Reclamation improved nutrition, microbial abundance and diversity in soil of a mining site. Soil enzyme activities were correlated more strongly with microbial abundance than diversity. Soil pH and SOC played important roles in bacterial and fungal genetic assemblages, respectively, with reclamation. MSQI would take about 20 years to reach a satisfactory value after reclamation.
The best of times, the worst of times - The global challenge of antimicrobial resistance. The development of resistance to antimicrobial agents by many bacterial pathogens has compromised traditional therapeutic regimens, making treatment of infections more difficult and frequently more expensive. Three factors have contributed to the development and spread of resistance: mutations in common genes that extend their spectrum of resistance, transfer of resistance genes among diverse microorganisms and increases in selective pressures in and outside of the hospital environment that enhance the development of resistant organisms. Some new resistance mechanisms are difficult to detect in the laboratory. Thus, resistant microorganisms may go unnoticed until they are widely disseminated in a hospital. The challenge for pharmacists, microbiologists and physicians is not only to contain the spread of existing resistant organisms, but also to prevent the emergence of new resistant pathogens by encouraging the rational and prudent use of antimicrobial agents.
Reproducibility of microbial mutagenicity assays: II. Testing of carcinogens and noncarcinogens in Salmonella typhimurium and Escherichia coli. A total of 63 chemicals were tested for mutagenicity in Salmonella typhimurium strains TA98, TAIOO, TA1535, TA1537, and TA1538, and Escherichia coli WP2 uvrA in a four‐laboratory study. Sixty of the chemicals had been tested for carcinogenicity by the National Cancer Institute or the National Toxicology Program. All chemicals were tested for mutagenicity without metabolic activation and with liver S‐9 preparations from uninduced and Aroclor 1254‐induced F344 rats, B6C3F1 mice, and Syrian hamsters. The intra‐ and interlaboratory reproducibility of the Salmonella assay with regard to the overall judgment of mutagenic or nonmutagenic was good. The results in the E coli strain, however, exhibited a high degree of variability between laboratories. With one or two exceptions, the mutagens were detected with S‐9 preparations from all three species, The uninduced liver S‐9 preparations did not activate any chemicals to mutagens that were not also activated by induced S‐9, but some chemicals were detected as mutagens only when induced S‐9 was used. A positive mutagenic response in Salmonella was predictive of carcinogenicity 69% of the time; when equivocal carcinogens and borderline mutagens were included, the predictivity increased to 83%. Conversely, 76% of the carcinogens were mutagens. When the equivocal carcinogens were included, the proportion dropped to 75%. Relatively few chemicals (18%) were mutagenic in E coli. Not all the carcinogens induced tumors in both rats and mice, and the species‐specific carcinogenicity could not be predicted from the S‐9‐specific mutagenicity.
ProtoBug: Functional families from the complete proteomes of insects. ProtoBug () is a database and resource of protein families in Arthropod genomes. ProtoBug platform presents the relatedness of complete proteomes from 17 insects as well as a proteome of the crustacean, Daphnia pulex. The represented proteomes from insects include louse, bee, beetle, ants, flies and mosquitoes. Based on an unsupervised clustering method, protein sequences were clustered into a hierarchical tree, called ProtoBug. ProtoBug covers about 300 000 sequences that are partitioned to families. At the default setting, all sequences are partitioned to ∼20 000 families (excluding singletons). From the species perspective, each of the 18 analysed proteomes is composed of 5000-8000 families. In the regime of the advanced operational mode, the ProtoBug provides rich navigation capabilities for touring the hierarchy of the families at any selected resolution. A proteome viewer shows the composition of sequences from any of the 18 analysed proteomes. Using functional annotation from an expert system (Pfam) we assigned domains, families and repeats by 4400 keywords that cover 73% of the sequences. A strict inference protocol is applied for expanding the functional knowledge. Consequently, secured annotations were associated with 81% of the proteins, and with 70% of the families (≥10 proteins each). ProtoBug is a database and webtool with rich visualization and navigation tools. The properties of each family in relation to other families in the ProtoBug tree, and in view of the taxonomy composition are reported. Furthermore, the user can paste its own sequences to find relatedness to any of the ProtoBug families. The database and the navigation tools are the basis for functional discoveries that span 350 million years of evolution of Arthropods. ProtoBug is available with no restriction at: .
Controllable synthesis of 3D Ni(OH)2 and NiO nanowalls on various substrates for high-performance nanosensors. Large-area and uniform three-dimensional (3D) β-Ni(OH)2 and NiO nanowalls were synthesized on a variety of rigid and flexible substrates via a simple aqueous chemical deposition process. The β-Ni(OH)2 nanowalls consist of single-crystal Ni(OH)2 nanosheets that were vertically grown on different substrates. The height, crystallinity, and morphology of the Ni(OH)2 nanowalls can be readily modified by adjusting the reaction time and concentration of the NiCl2 solution. The synthesis mechanism of the Ni(OH)2 nanowalls was determined through heterogeneous nucleation and subsequent oriented crystal growth. 3D NiO nanowalls were obtained by thermal decomposition of the Ni(OH)2 nanowalls at 400°C in Ar atmosphere. Highly sensitive, selective gas sensors and electrochemical sensors based on these NiO nanowalls were developed. The chemiresistive gas sensors based on the NiO nanowalls grown on ceramic substrates exhibited an excellent performance with low detection limit for formaldehyde (8 ppb) and NO2 (15 ppb). The electrochemical sensor based on the NiO nanowalls grown on an FTO glass substrate had a superior selectivity to non-enzymatic glucose with a detection limit of 200 nM.
Performance of EHR classifiers for patient eligibility in a clinical trial of precision screening. Background: Validated computable eligibility criteria use real-world data and facilitate the conduct of clinical trials. The Genomic Medicine at VA (GenoVA) Study is a pragmatic trial of polygenic risk score testing enrolling patients without known diagnoses of 6 common diseases: atrial fibrillation, coronary artery disease, type 2 diabetes, breast cancer, colorectal cancer, and prostate cancer. We describe the validation of computable disease classifiers as eligibility criteria and their performance in the first 16 months of trial enrollment. Methods: We identified well-performing published computable classifiers for the 6 target diseases and validated these in the target population using blinded physician review. If needed, classifiers were refined and then underwent a subsequent round of blinded review until true positive and true negative rates ≥80% were achieved. The optimized classifiers were then implemented as pre-screening exclusion criteria; telephone screens enabled an assessment of their real-world negative predictive value (NPV-RW). Results: Published classifiers for type 2 diabetes and breast and prostate cancer achieved desired performance in blinded chart review without modification; the classifier for atrial fibrillation required two rounds of refinement before achieving desired performance. Among the 1077 potential participants screened in the first 16 months of enrollment, NPV-RW of the classifiers ranged from 98.4% for coronary artery disease to 99.9% for colorectal cancer. Performance did not differ by gender or race/ethnicity. Conclusions: Computable disease classifiers can serve as efficient and accurate pre-screening classifiers for clinical trials, although performance will depend on the trial objectives and diseases under study.
A Rare Case of Multiple Thrombosis Associated with COVID-19 Pneumonia. Coronavirus disease 2019 is an infectious disease caused by the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 virus. Hypoxic respiratory failure, multiorgan dysfunction, septic shock, thrombosis, and thromboembolic complications have been associated with the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 infection. We report the presentation of the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 infection with acute upper extremity ischemia and mesenteric ischemia clinic. We also report that this patient had an aortic arch mural thrombus as a possible source of thromboembolism, and we emphasize that the aorta should also be carefully evaluated in thromboembolic patients with coronavirus disease 2019.
Historical perspective on mitochondrial medicine. In this review, we trace the origins and follow the development of mitochondrial medicine from the premolecular era (1962-1988) based on clinical clues, muscle morphology, and biochemistry into the molecular era that started in 1988 and is still advancing at a brisk pace. We have tried to stress conceptual advances, such as endosymbiosis, uniparental inheritance, intergenomic signaling and its defects, and mitochondrial dynamics. We hope that this historical review also provides an update on mitochondrial medicine, although we fully realize that the speed of progress in this area makes any such endeavor akin to writing on water.
Determinants of biotechnology utilization by the Canadian industry. The research reported in this paper uses data from Statistics Canada's Biotechnology Firm Survey, 1997 to look into the factors that cause the Canadian industry to use biotechnology. The descriptive results show that the health sector leads the way in biotechnology utilization, followed in decreasing order by the agriculture and food processing sector and the environment sector. Furthermore, biochemistry and immunology based biotechnologies are the most used, with 76% of the 282 firms surveyed firms using them, as compared to 74% for bioprocessing based biotechnologies, and 52.5% for DNA based biotechnologies. Analytical results from multivariate analyses show that biotechnology development is fairly more industry specific than firm specific. In fact, the extent to which a firm's absorptive capacity (AC), its learning capability, and its stock of relational capital affects its utilization of biotechnology depends largely on the industrial sector to which the firms belongs. Firm's characteristics, namely, age and size, are found to have no effect on the utilization of biotechnology.
The couvade syndrome.. This is a psychophysiologic reaction to a woman's pregnancy on the part of her spouse. Nausea, vomiting, cramps or appetite disturbance occur in the husband early in pregnancy or near term. Anthropologists have found that ritual couvades dates back to ancient rituals regulating the behavior of the husband of a woman in labor. The modern syndrome is usually a self-limited condition but may indicate fears and anxieties that can be relieved by the understanding approach of the family physician.
Evaluation of Dried Blood and Cerebrospinal Fluid Filter Paper Spots for Storing and Transporting Clinical Material for the Molecular Diagnosis of Invasive Meningococcal Disease. To improve the storage and transport of clinical specimens for the diagnosis of Neisseria meningitidis (Nm) infections in resource-limited settings, we have evaluated the performance of dried blood spot (DBS) and dried cerebrospinal fluid spot (DCS) assays. DBS and DCS were prepared on filter paper from liquid specimens previously tested for Nm in the United Kingdom. Nm was detected and genogrouped by real-time PCR performed on crude genomic DNA extracted from the DBS (n = 226) and DCS (n = 226) specimens. Targeted whole-genome sequencing was performed on a subset of specimens, DBS (n = 4) and DCS (n = 6). The overall agreement between the analysis of liquid and dried specimens was (94.2%; 95% CI 90.8–96.7) for blood and (96.4%; 95% CI 93.5–98.0) for cerebrospinal fluid. Relative to liquid specimens as the reference, the DBS and DCS assays had sensitivities of (89.1%; 95% CI 82.7–93.8) and (94.2%; 95% CI 88.9–97.5), respectively, and both assays had specificities above 98%. A genogroup was identified by dried specimen analysis for 81.9% of the confirmed meningococcal infections. Near full-length Nm genome sequences (>86%) were obtained for all ten specimens tested which allowed determination of the sequence type, clonal complex, presence of antimicrobial resistance and other meningococcal genotyping. Dried blood and CSF filter spot assays offer a practical alternative to liquid specimens for the molecular and genomic characterisation of invasive meningococcal diseases in low-resource settings.
Behavior and morphometric characterization of local and introduced cultivars of sweet cherries (Prunus avium), tested in a multi-site trial in Tunisia. Sweet cherry (Prunus avium L.) is a hardy species able to be adapted to various soil and climatic conditions; but its development is hampered by some physical, climatic and physiological constraints. The objective of this work is to study the behavior of 11 sweet cherry cultivars in three experimental sites characterized by different pedo-climatic conditions in the North West of Tunisia (Ain-Draham, Bousalem and Tibar) and to explore the “Genotype -by- environment” interaction to select the most suitable cultivar for the mild wintry climate of North West Tunisia. Six cultivars are of known origins (1 cultivar from Tunisia, 1 cultivar from Germany, 1 cultivar from France and 3 cultivars from Canada) as well as 5 cultivars are of unknown origins. Morphometric measurements were made on the leaves, flowers and fruits. Univariate statistical analyses comparing the obtained means at each experimental site were performed. To study the « Genotype x Environment » interaction (GxE), an inter-site analysis of variance was performed on the common cultivars to both Tibar and Ain-Draham sites. The decomposition of the “GxE” interaction by using Wrike's ecovalence showed that, firstly the French cultivar “Moreau” and secondly the Canadian cultivar “Van”, are the two main cultivars influenced by the environmental conditions for the most studied morphometric characteristics. Multivariate analyses based on cluster analysis and principal component analysis was performed on the mean values of all the measured parameters for the each cultivar-site combinations. Napoleon, Van, Moreau, Stella, Bouargoub, BV9 and BV11 were best adapted cultivars to the climate with mild winter.
Inheritance of resistance to soybean mosaic virus in phaseolus vulgaris. In cross and backcross populations of the bean cuttlvar Great Northem 1140 (resistant to soybeam mosaic virus (SMV)) with the susceptible line Black Turtle 2 (a selection of Black Turtle Soup), resistance was conferred by a single but Incompletely dominant gene (Smv). In seed lots of Individual plants of SMVInfected Black Turtle 2 and the cultlvar Pioneer, which had been kept In storage for more than a year, virus transmission ranged from 0 to 4 percent.
Chemical and phytochemicals content of barberry (Berberis vulgaris L.) fruit genotypes from sivasli district of Uşak province of Western Turkey. Turkey is one of the most outstanding places with the highest potential to grow barberry crop. The barberry possesses nutritional and health supplements and that can be grown naturally in almost all regions of Turkey. The goal of this paper was to determine chemical and phytochemical contents of barberry genotypes collected fromSivaslı district of Uşak province of Western Turkey. We identified 16 different barberry genotypes from the studied sites which were subjected to phytochemical analysis. We analyzed barberry juices in terms of chemical (fruit skin color, soluble solid content, acidity and pH) and phytochemical (antioxidant activity, phenol, flavonoids and ascorbic acids) values. The results indicated that total flavonoids contents were ranged from 261.66 to 965.97 mg CAT/100 g FW and the highest ascorbic acid values were found as 444.35 with the lowest ones as 120.36 mg/100 g. The antioxidant activity between genotypes was varied from 126.27 to 34.20% and total phenol contents were from 1198.53 to 2616.78 mg GAE/100 g FW. Statistical analysis showed that there was a significant difference (p<0.01) for all measurements between genotypes handled in this study and that a major correlation occurs between total antioxidant activity and total flavonoids, SSC, pH, L (brightness).
Multiple disease resistance in common bean genotypes and their agronomic performance in eastern Ethiopia. Field trials were conducted during the 1996-1999 summer cropping seasons to evaluate common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) genotypes for multiple disease (anthracnose, angular leaf spot and common bacterial blight) resistance at Haramaya, eastern Ethiopia. Performance of promising genotypes was also evaluated in terms of yield and yield components. Out of 201 genotypes evaluated in 1996, 171 genotypes were found to be resistant to anthracnose, 117 to angular leaf spot, and 161 to common bacterial blight. Among the 201 genotypes, 26 (13%) were commonly resistant to all three diseases, and were further evaluated in 1997 and 1998. Out of the aforementioned 26 genotypes, 10 (39%) were found to be resistant to the diseases and so were evaluated in 1999 to further verify the degree of resistance and also to evaluate agronomic performance. The genotypes identified as having multiple disease resistance were: EMP 219, TY 3396-6, TY 3396-7, TY 3396-12, RAB 404, ARA 21, TAR 3, BZ 1289-12, GLPX-92 (Ayenew) and A-176 (Roba-1). The selected genotypes were of the late maturity group and had a similar number of pods per plant and seeds per pod. Ayenew gave the highest 100-seed weight (46 g), but TY 3396-12 had better yield (4.5 t ha-1) performance compared to the two released varieties, Ayenew and Roba-1 under production. The identified genotypes can be used as sources of resistance in breeding programme.
Effect of induction duration and medium composition on plant regeneration in wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) anther culture. The effect of induction duration, medium form and medium composition on plant regeneration from microspore-derived embryo-like structures (ELS) in anther culture of two genetically non-related spring wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) genotypes was investigated using liquid W14 as a basic induction medium. Induction duration had a significant effect on the regeneration capacity of ELS. The highest percentage (63%) of regenerable ELS was obtained with 7 weeks of induction whereas the corresponding values with 6, 8 and 12 weeks were 57%, 38% and 9%, respectively. Application of ficoll to the medium, changing the medium form from liquid to solid during the induction or supplementing the medium with glutamine, maltose, cellobiose or trehalose neither increased the number of ELS nor improved plant regeneration. The average number of ELS per 100 anthers decreased from 75 to 9 but the percentage of regenerable ELS increased from 53% to 75%, when sucrose was replaced by cellobiose. We conclude that there was an optimum time for maximum plant regeneration and that ELS should be transferred from induction to regeneration no later than 7 weeks after anther isolation.
Natural hybridization in the context of Ocbil theory. Ocbil theory was developed to better understand the origins, ecology and conservation of biodiversity and cultural diversity on the Earth's oldest, climatically buffered, most infertile landscapes (Ocbils), which are especially prominent in the Southwest Australian and Greater Cape Floristic Regions. Natural hybridization involves the mating of individuals from distinguishable populations, usually of distinct taxa, and often involves the production of later-generation derivatives from such matings. Drawing upon Edgar Anderson's Hybridized Habitat hypothesis and Arnold's modern development of Anderson's and Stebbins’ ‘genetic exchange in fluctuating environments’ thesis, it is predicted that natural hybridization, introgression and hybrid speciation will be reduced in Ocbils and more common in Yodfels (young, often-disturbed, fertile landscapes) globally – the Reduced Hybridization Hypothesis for Ocbils. Evidence supporting this hypothesis is explored in herbarium and field data on hybridization rates and hybrid speciation in southwest Australia, contrasted with reviews of hybridization rates in other global regions. Further research is recommended and independent tests in South Africa and other countries with Ocbils would be instructive. The solitary Ocbil dwelling Eucalyptus × graniticola Hopper is described in supplementary material to exemplify the Reduced Hybridization Hypothesis.
Ethnobotany, morphology and genotyping of cassava germplasm from Malawi. The objectives of this study were to collect and characterise Malawian cassava germplasm using ethnobotany, morphological and Amplified Fragment Length Polymorphism (AFLP) markers. Exploration of accessions with the help of indigenous knowledge was done. Ninety three accessions collected from farmers fields and commercial programs were planted and morphologically characterised at Chitedze Agricultural Research Station (Malawi). A subsample of 28 accessions was used for DNA fingerprinting. Preferences of farmers for traits in cassava varieties were diverse according to use and areas. Ethnobotany revealed wide genetic diversity in the germplasm, as did morphological characterisation, but morphological characterisation failed to uniquely differentiate all analysed accessions. AFLP markers showed narrow genetic diversity but managed to distinguish all accessions. Hence, there is need to use all three techniques at different levels to identify genetic diversity.
Phylogenetic systematics of the tribe Millettieae (Leguminosae) based on chloroplast trnK/matK sequences and its implications for evolutionary patterns in Papilionoideae. Phylogenetic relationships in the tribe Millettieae and allies in the subfamily Papilionoideae (Leguminosae) were reconstructed from chloroplast trnK/matK sequences. Sixty-two accessions representing 57 traditionally recognized genera of Papilionoideae were sampled, including 27 samples from Millettieae. Phylogenies were constructed using maximum parsimony and are well resolved and supported by high bootstrap values. A well-supported 'core Millettieae' clade is recognized, comprising the four large genera Millettia, Lonchocarpus, Derris, and Tephrosia. Several other small genera of Millettieae are not in the core Millettieae clade. Platycyamus is grouped with Phaseoleae (in part). Ostryocarpus, Austrosteenisia, and Dalbergiella are neither in the core Millettieae or Phaseoleae clade. These taxa, along with core Millettieae and Phaseoleae, form a monophyletic sister group to Indigofereae. Cyclolobium and Poecilanthe are close to Brongniartieae. Callerya and Wisteria belong to a large clade that includes all the legumes that lack the inverted repeat in their chloroplast genome, which confirms previous rbcL and phytochrome gene family phylogenies. The evolutionary history of four characters was examined in Millettieae and allies: the presence of canavanine, inflorescence types, the dehiscence of pods, and the presence of winged pods. trnK/matK sequence analysis suggests that the presence of a pseudoraceme or pseudopanicle and the accumulation of nonprotein amino acids are phylogenetically informative for Millettieae and allies with only a few exceptions.
Trehalose phosphate synthase overexpression in Parachlorella kessleri improves growth and photosynthetic performance under high light conditions. Parachlorella kessleri is a promising oil-bearing marine alga which shows decreased growth under high light stress. Osmolytes are known to relieve stress by protecting the cell membrane, proteins, and enzymes. Enhanced production of osmolyte (trehalose) was thus used to relieve stress in P. kessleri by overexpression of trehalose phosphate synthase (TPS) gene. Transformed P. kessleri was grown under different light regimes to study the effect of trehalose overproduction on growth. Study of one of the TPS transformants showed increased trehalose as well as increased biomass and decreased pigments, reactive oxygen species, and lipid peroxidation of cell membrane. The improved photosynthetic performance of the transformant was also signified by pulse-amplitude-modulated fluorometric analysis. All of these factors reveal improved stress tolerance under high light conditions by increased trehalose accumulation due to TPS overexpression in P. kessleri.
Random walk on a leash: A simple single-molecule diffusion model for surface-tethered redox molecules with flexible linkers. We develop a random walk model to simulate the Brownian motion and the electrochemical response of a single molecule confined to an electrode surface via a flexible molecular tether. We use our simple model, which requires no prior knowledge of the physics of the molecular tether, to predict and better understand the voltammetric response of surface-confined redox molecules when motion of the redox molecule becomes important. The single molecule is confined to a hemispherical volume with a maximum radius determined by the flexible molecular tether (5-20 nm) and is allowed to undergo true three-dimensional diffusion. Distance- and potential-dependent electron transfer probabilities are evaluated throughout the simulations to generate cyclic voltammograms of the model system. We find that at sufficiently slow cyclic voltammetric scan rates the electrochemical reaction behaves like an adsorbed redox molecule with no mass transfer limitation; thus, the peak current is proportional to the scan rate. Conversely, at faster scan rates the diffusional motion of the molecule limits the simulated peak current, which exhibits a linear dependence on the square root of the scan rate. The switch between these two limiting regimes occurs when the diffusion layer thickness, (2Dt)1/2, is ∼10 times the tether length. Finally, we find that our model predicts the voltammetric behavior of a redox-active methylene blue tethered to an electrode surface via short flexible single-stranded, polythymine DNAs, allowing the estimation of diffusion coefficients for the end-tethered molecule.
QTL Analysis of Tuber Dormancy and Sprouting in Potato. Tuber dormancy and sprouting are important traits in commercial potato varieties. Since wild Solanum species can contribute new alleles in breeding, we combined Solanum chacoense and S. berthaultii species in a mapping population to develop a linkage map with genome wide markers and identify quantitative trait loci (QTL) for tuber dormancy and sprouting. There was genetic variation for the evaluated traits and high correlation (0.80) between dormancy and apical dominance release. QTL for tuber dormancy and sprouting traits were mapped to the same or similar positions on chromosomes 2, 3, 5, and 7, explaining from 9.5% to 16.3% of the phenotypic variance. We identified candidate genes associated with all major phytohormone regulation in close linkage with the QTL. The QTL on chromosomes 2, 3 and 7 are good candidates for marker assisted breeding, since they were associated with dormancy and apical dominance release and should be useful to delay or accelerate tuber sprouting.
An overview of pyrethroid insecticides. Background: Pesticides are used to control various pests of agricultural crops worldwide. Despite their agricultural benefits, pesticides are often considered a serious threat to the environment because of their persistence. Pyrethroids are synthetic derivates of pyrethrins, which are natural organic insecticides procured from the flowers of Chrysanthemum cinerariaefolium and C. coccineum. Pyrethroids are classified into two groups—class I and class II—based on their toxicity and physical properties. These pyrethroids are now used in many synthetic insecticides and are highly specific against insects; they are generally used against mosquitoes. The prominent site of insecticidal action of pyrethroids is the voltage-sensitive sodium channels. Methods and Results: Pyrethroids are found to be stable, and they persist in the environment for a long period. This article provides an overview of the different classes, structure, and insecticidal properties of pyrethroid. Furthermore, the toxicity of pyrethroids is also discussed with emphasis on bioremediation to alleviate pollution. Conclusions: The article focuses on various microorganisms used in the degradation of pyrethroids, the molecular basis of degradation, and the role of carboxylesterase enzymes and genes in the detoxification of pyrethroid.
Understanding sexual prejudice: The role of political ideology and strategic essentialism. Despite the increased visibility and acceptance of the LGBTQ community, sexual minorities continue to face prejudice and discrimination in many domains. Past research has shown that this prejudice is more prevalent among those holding conservative political views. In two studies, we merge strategic essentialism and motivated ideology theoretical perspectives to empirically investigate the link between political orientation and sexual prejudice. More specifically, we examine how conservatives strategically use different forms of essentialism to support their views of gay individuals and their reactions to messages aimed at changing essentializing beliefs. In Study 1 (N = 220), we demonstrate that conservatives endorse social essentialism (i.e., the belief that gay and straight people are fundamentally different from each other) more than liberals do. In turn, they blame gay individuals more for their sexual orientation and show more prejudice toward them. At the same time, conservatives endorse trait essentialism (i.e., the belief that sexual orientation is a fixed attribute that cannot be changed) less than liberals do, which in turn predicts greater levels of blame and prejudice for conservatives relative to liberals. In Study 2 (N = 217), we additionally show that conservatives, but not liberals, are resistant to messages aimed at increasing trait essentialism and reducing prejudice toward sexual minorities. We discuss theoretical and practical implications of these findings.
Biofunctionalization of multiwalled carbon nanotubes by electropolymerized poly(pyrrole-concanavalin A) films. The synthesis and electropolymerization of a pyrrolic concanavalin A derivative (pyrrole-Con A) onto a multiwalled carbon nanotube (MWCNT) deposit is reported. Glucose oxidase was then immobilized onto the MWCNT-poly(pyrrole-Con A) coating by affinity carbohydrate interactions with the polymerized Con A protein. The resulting enzyme electrode was applied to the amperometric detection of glucose exhibiting a high sensitivity of 36 mA cm(-2) mol(-1) L and a maximum current density of 350 μA cm(-2) .
Global urban environmental change drives adaptation in white clover. Urbanization transforms environments in ways that alter biological evolution. We examined whether urban environmental change drives parallel evolution by sampling 110,019 white clover plants from 6169 populations in 160 cities globally. Plants were assayed for a Mendelian antiherbivore defense that also affects tolerance to abiotic stressors. Urban-rural gradients were associated with the evolution of clines in defense in 47% of cities throughout the world. Variation in the strength of clines was explained by environmental changes in drought stress and vegetation cover that varied among cities. Sequencing 2074 genomes from 26 cities revealed that the evolution of urban-rural clines was best explained by adaptive evolution, but the degree of parallel adaptation varied among cities. Our results demonstrate that urbanization leads to adaptation at a global scale.
Bioremediation of toxic heavy metals (THMs) contaminated sites: concepts, applications and challenges. Heavy metal contamination is a global issue, where the prevalent contaminants are arsenic (As), cadmium (Cd), chromium (Cr)(VI), mercury (Hg), and lead (Pb). More often, they are collectively known as “most problematic heavy metals” and “toxic heavy metals” (THMs). Their treatment through a variety of biological processes is one of the prime interests in remediation studies, where heavy metal-microbe interaction approaches receive high interest for their cost effective and ecofriendly solutions. In this review, we provide an up to date information on different microbial processes (bioremediation) for the removal of THMs. For the same, emphasis is put on oxidation-reduction, biomineralization, bioprecipitation, bioleaching, biosurfactant technology, biovolatilization, biosorption, bioaccumulation, and microbe-assisted phytoremediation with their selective advantages and disadvantages. Further, the literature briefly discusses about the various setups of cleaning processes of THMs in environment under ex situ and in situ applications. Lately, the study sheds light on the manipulation of microorganisms through genetic engineering and nanotechnology for their advanced treatment approaches.
Roux-en-Y gastric bypass surgery in rats alters gut microbiota profile along the intestine. Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB) surgery might modify the gut microbiota composition differently in the three distinct anatomical sections of the small intestine compared to sham surgery. We showed that RYGB induced changes in the microbiota of the alimentary limb and the common channel resembling those seen after prebiotic treatment or weight loss by dieting. These changes may be associated with altered production of intestinal hormones known to control energy balance. Postsurgical modulation of gut microbiota may significantly contribute to the beneficial metabolic effects of RYGB surgery.
Purification and cloning of a γ-glutamyl transpeptidase from onion (Allium cepa). γ-Glutamyl transpeptidase (E.C. 2.3.2.2; GGT) catalyses hydrolysis of γ-glutamyl linkages in γ-glutamyl peptides and transfer of the γ-glutamyl group to amino acids and peptides. Although plant γ-glutamyl peptide metabolism is important in biosynthesis and metabolism of secondary products and xenobiotics, plant GGTs are poorly characterised. We purified a membrane-associated GGT from sprouting onion bulbs that catalyses transpeptidation of methionine by the synthetic substrate γ-glutamyl-p- nitroanilide (GGPNA) and obtained N-terminal peptide sequence. We also cloned the full-length coding region of an onion GGT by homology with the Arabidopsis enzyme and confirmed that this shared the same N-terminal sequence. Enzyme kinetic studies show that the enzyme has high affinity for glutathione and glutathione conjugates, and that affinity for S-substituted glutathione analogs decreases as the substituted chain length increases. The major onion γ-glutamyl peptide, γ-glutamyl trans-S-1-propenyl cysteine sulfoxide (GGPrCSO) exhibited uncompetitive inhibition of transpeptidation by GGPNA. This suggests that GGPrCSO is a poor glutamyl donor and therefore unlikely to be an in vivo substrate for peptidase activity by this enzyme.
Zombie politics: evolutionary algorithms to counteract the spread of negative opinions. This paper is about simulating the spread of opinions in a society and about finding ways to counteract that spread. To abstract away from potentially emotionally laden opinions, we instead simulate the spread of a zombie outbreak in a society. The virus causing this outbreak is different from traditional approaches: It not only causes a binary outcome (healthy vs. infected) but rather a continuous outcome. To counteract the outbreak, a discrete number of infection-level-specific treatments are available. This corresponds to acts of mild persuasion or the threats of legal action in the opinion spreading use case. This paper offers a genetic and a cultural algorithm that find the optimal mixture of treatments during the run of the simulation. They are assessed in a number of different scenarios. It is shown that albeit far from being perfect, the cultural algorithm delivers superior performance at lower computational expense.
Cytogenetical Studies on the Hybrids of Echinochloa oryzicola Vasing. and the Thai Tetraploid Strain of E. stagnina (Retz.) Beauv. with the West African Species E. obtusiflora Stapf. The West African annual diploid E, obtusiflora (2n=2x=18) is characterized by the morphology of its spikelets and is partially self-incompatible. The result of the author's field observation in Nigeria indicated that this species is a companion weed of African rice Oryza glaberrima. The annual tetraploid E. oryzicola (=E. phyllopogon Stapf subsp. oryzicola (Vasing.) Koss., 2n=4x=36) is a companion weed of common rice Oryza sativa, and also is the carrier of two of the three genomes of the annual hexaploid E. crus-galli (2n=6x=54), the wild form of the Asian cultivated species E. utilis. The self-pollinated, stoloniferous perennial species E. stagnina is distributed in tropical Asia and Africa, and includes some cytoytpes. The F1 hybrids of E. oryzicola and the Thai 4x strain (2n=4x=36) of E. stagnina with E. obtusiflora were artificially produced. The results of the cytogenetical studies on these F1 hybrids indicated that the genome of E. obtusiflora may be related to one of the genomes of the Thai 4x strain and that E. obtusiflora has more or less the cytological characteristics which are requisite for a presumable diploid carrier of the third genome of E. crus-galli.
Is there a case for hepatitis C infection screening in the antenatal period?. Based on research evidence the UK National Screening Committee recently recommended that routine antenatal screening for hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection should not be introduced into the UK antenatal screening programme. In this paper we review the evidence on which this decision was based, addressing the criteria that need to be considered before the introduction of a new screening programme.
Operational integration of suburban railway and public buses - Case study of Mumbai. In this research feeder routes and coordinated schedules were developed for integration of feeder public buses with suburban trains. A Heuristic Feeder Route Generation Algorithm was developed for generation of feeder routes. Optimal coordinated schedules for feeder buses were developed in coordination with the existing given schedules of suburban trains. Genetic algorithm, which is a robust optimization technique, is used for the optimizing coordinated schedules. Andheri and Vileparle suburban railway stations of Mumbai, India were selected as study areas. Feeder routes for public buses and coordinated schedules of public buses for the existing given schedules of suburban trains at the two suburban railway stations were successfully developed in this research.
Catalases CAT1 and CAT3 are not key enzymes in alleviating gamma irradiation-induced DNA damage, H2O2 accumulation, or lipid peroxidation in arabidopsis thaliana. Gamma irradiation increased catalase activities at 0.1 kGy and decreased them at 10 kGy in Arabidopsis wild type and catalase-deficient mutants, cat3-1 and cat1 cat3. Irradiation induced DNA damage, H2O2 accumulation, and lipid peroxidation in both mutants as well as the wild type. Thus catalases might not be key enzymes protecting gamma irradiation-induced damage.
Fluctuations in Intestinal Microbiota Following Ingestion of Natto Powder Containing Bacillus subtilis var. natto SONOMONO Spores: Considerations Using a Large-Scale Intestinal Microflora Database. Improving the intestinal microbiota using probiotics, prebiotics, and synbiotics has attracted attention as a method of disease prevention and treatment. This is the first study to discuss the effects of food intake on the intestinal microbiota using a large Japanese intestinal microbiota database. Here, as a case study, we determined changes in the intestinal microbiota caused by ingestion of a processed natto food containing B. subtilis var. natto SONOMONO spores, SONOMONO NATTO POWDER CAPSULESTM, by analyzing 16S rRNA sequence data generated using next-generation sequencing techniques. The results showed that the relative abundance of Bifidobacterium and Blautia as well as the relative abundance of Bifidobacterium were increased in males and females in the ingesting group, respectively. Additionally, the effects of SONOMONO NATTO POWDER CAPSULESTM intake on Bifidobacterium and Blautia abundance depended on the relative abundance of Bifidobacterium at baseline. Finally, analysis of a large Japanese intestinal microbiota database suggested that the bacterial genera that fluctuated with the ingestion of SONOMONO NATTO POWDER CAPSULESTM may be associated with lifestyle-related diseases such as diabetes.
Linkage analysis in a full-sib family of an outbreeding plant species: Overview and consequences for applications. Linkage analysis and map construction using molecular markers is far more complicated in full-sib families of outbreeding plant species than in progenies derived from homozygous parents. Markers may vary in the number of segregating alleles. One or both parents may be heterozygous, markers may be dominant or codominant and usually the linkage phases of marker pairs are unknown. Because of these differences, marker pairs provide different amounts of information for the estimation of recombination frequencies and the linkage phases of the markers in the two parents, and usually these have to be estimated simultaneously. In this paper we present a complete overview of all possible configurations of marker pairs segregating in full-sib families. Maximum likelihood estimators for the recombination frequency and LOD score formulas are presented for all cases. Statistical properties of the estimators are studied analytically and by simulation. Specific problems of dominant markers, in particular with respect to the probability of detecting linkage, the probability of obtaining zero estimates, and the ability to distinguish linkage phase combinations, and consequences for mapping studies in outbred progenies are discussed.
Informed consent and selection bias in a genetic study of schizophrenia. Informed consent is always required when a family is recruited to take part in a genetic study. We studied the possibility that refusals may cause selection bias when collecting a sample of sibpair families with schizophrenia. The sampling was carried out systematically through nation-wide registers. We compared the register data (number of affected and unaffected family members, birth order of the proband, age, gender, age at onset, all hospital treatments and their diagnoses, retirement on disablement pension) of the affected individuals in two datasets. 1: 154 families with at least one refused family member compared to 154 control families with no refusals. 2: 43 sibpairs with one affected family member who refused compared to the other affected family member who gave informed consent. In the familywise comparison we found no differences in the register data between the families with refusals and without refusals. In the other comparison those family members who agreed to give informed consent had more hospital treatments and were more often retired, but no other clinical differences in the register data could be found. According to this study refusals were not a significant source of selection bias considering family structure, clinical diagnoses and age at onset.
Quantitative PCR confirms purity of strain GT, a novel trichloroethene-to- ethene-respiring Dehalococcoides isolate. A novel Dehalococcoides isolate capable of metabolic trichloroethene (TCE)-to-ethene reductive dechlorination was obtained from contaminated aquifer material. Growth studies and 16S rRNA gene-targeted analyses suggested culture purity; however, the careful quantitative analysis of Dehalococcoides 16S rRNA gene and chloroethene reductive dehalogenase gene (i.e., vcrA, tceA, and bvcA) copy numbers revealed that the culture consisted of multiple, distinct Dehalococcoides organisms. Subsequent transfers, along with quantitative PCR monitoring, yielded isolate GT, possessing only vcrA. These findings suggest that commonly used qualitative 16S rRNA gene-based procedures are insufficient to verify parity of Dehalococcoides cultures. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that strain GT is affiliated with the Pinellas group of the Dehalococcoides cluster and shares 100% 16S rRNA gene sequence identity with two other Dehalococcoides isolates, strain FL2 and strain CBDB1. The new isolate is distinct, as it respires the priority pollutants TCE, cis-1,2-dichloroethene (cis-DCE), 1,1-dichloroethene (1,1-DCE), and vinyl chloride (VC), thereby producing innocuous etliene and inorganic chloride. Strain GT dechlorinated TCE, cis-DCE, 1,1-DCE, and VC to ethene at rates up to 40, 41, 62, and 127 μmol liter-1 day-1, respectively, but failed to dechlorinate PCE. Hydrogen was the required electron donor, which was depleted to a consumption threshold concentration of 0.76 ± 0.13 nM with VC as the electron acceptor. In contrast to the known TCE dechlorinating isolates, strain GT dechlorinated TCE to ethene with very little formation of chlorinated intermediates, suggesting that this type of organism avoids the commonly observed accumulation of cis-DCE and VC during TCE-to-ethene dechlorination.
A case of fixed cutaneous sporotrichosis caused by Sporothrix globosa on the face. Sporotrichosis is a chronic cutaneous fungal infection caused by Sporothrix (S.) schenckii complex. Fixed cutaneous sporotrichosis is one of the three subtype of sprotrichosis and accounts for 20% of total sporotrichosis cases. However, the incidence of total sporotrichosis cases is decreasing recently due to improvement of personal hygiene and industrialization. A 60-year-old woman presented to the hospital with multiple erythematous papules and ulcers on left cheek for 5 months. Histopathologic examination revealed chronic granulomatous inflammation and immunohistochemical staining was positive for GMS and PAS stain. The fungal culture on Sabouraud dextrose agar showed grayish dark brown colonies and the sequences of ribosomal DNA internal transcribed spacer region of clinical sample was 100% similarity with S. globosa. The patient was treated with oral itraconazole 200 mg daily and topical ketoconazole cream for 3 months. At that time after this treatment, skin lesion was almost cured and recurrence is not observed to date.
Differential response of rice seedlings to salt stress in relation to antioxidant enzyme activity and membrane stability index. Three rice genotypes, IR 74802, IR 73104 and IR 72593, along with FL 478 and IR 29 as resistant and susceptible controls, respectively, were subjected to 21 days' salinity stress at the seedling stage in modified yoshida solution with two salt levels (60 and 120 mM NaCl). The results indicated that there was a profound increase in proline and ascorbic acid levels, and in the activity of nitrate reductase and antioxidant enzymes, i.e. catalase, peroxidase and ascorbate peroxidase, as well as malondialdhyde and membrane stability index, which were associated with salt tolerance. Salt stress had a significant and drastic effect on all parameters when the salinity level increased to 120 mM NaCl. The increased enzyme activity was directly related to an increased membrane stability index, as in IR 72593, which is identified as the most tolerant among the genotypes tested. It is clearly confirmed that predicting tolerance at the early seedling stage is the best way to assess the salinity tolerance level by utilizing physiological parameters, especially antioxidant enzyme activities which are found to be closely associated with salinity tolerance. Physiological adaptation of the plant to NaCl salt stress resulted in enhanced activity of stress-related enzymes and low sodium uptake in tolerant genotypes.
3D Semi-Analytical Modeling and Optimization of Fully HTS Ironless Axial Flux Electrical Machines. In this paper, a three-dimensional semi-analytical approach, based on the volume integral method, is developed to compute the forces and torque in fully high temperature superconducting (HTS) ironless axial flux machine (IAFM). The use of particular volumetric basis elements helps to speed up the computation of the magnetic field. The Maxwell stress tensor method is used for the force and torque calculations, where the electromagnetic state of the superconductor is taken into account. The developed model is then introduced into a multi objective optimization procedure, based on the genetic algorithms, to maximize the magnetic torque and minimize the superconducting wire length in the considered structure, while respecting the constraints linked to the physical and mechanical properties of the considered HTS tape. It is shown that the considered fully HTS machine has a higher torque density compared to conventional one.
Accelerated Monte Carlo simulation on the chemical stage in water radiolysis using GPU. The accurate simulation of water radiolysis is an important step to understand the mechanisms of radiobiology and quantitatively test some hypotheses regarding radiobiological effects. However, the simulation of water radiolysis is highly time consuming, taking hours or even days to be completed by a conventional CPU processor. This time limitation hinders cell-level simulations for a number of research studies. We recently initiated efforts to develop gMicroMC, a GPU-based fast microscopic MC simulation package for water radiolysis. The first step of this project focused on accelerating the simulation of the chemical stage, the most time consuming stage in the entire water radiolysis process. A GPU-friendly parallelization strategy was designed to address the highly correlated many-body simulation problem caused by the mutual competitive chemical reactions between the radiolytic molecules. Two cases were tested, using a 750 keV electron and a 5 MeV proton incident in pure water, respectively. The time-dependent yields of all the radiolytic species during the chemical stage were used to evaluate the accuracy of the simulation. The relative differences between our simulation and the Geant4-DNA simulation were on average 5.3% and 4.4% for the two cases. Our package, executed on an Nvidia Titan black GPU card, successfully completed the chemical stage simulation of the two cases within 599.2 s and 489.0 s. As compared with Geant4-DNA that was executed on an Intel i7-5500U CPU processor and needed 28.6 h and 26.8 h for the two cases using a single CPU core, our package achieved a speed-up factor of 171.1-197.2.
Transgenerational adaptation to heavy metal salts in arabidopsis. Exposure to abiotic and biotic stress results in changes in plant physiology and triggers genomic instability. Recent reports suggest that the progeny of stressed plants also exhibit changes in genome stability, stress tolerance, and methylation. Here we analyzed whether exposure to Ni2+, Cd2+, and Cu2+ salts leads to transgenerational changes in homologous recombination frequency and stress tolerance. We found that the immediate progeny of stressed plants exhibited an increased rate of recombination. However, when the progeny of stressed plants was propagated without stress, recombination reverted to normal levels. Exposure of plants to heavy metals for five consecutive generations (S1-S5) resulted in recombination frequency being maintained at a high level. Skipping stress following two to three generations of propagation with 50mM Ni2+ or Cd2+ did not decrease the recombination frequency, suggesting plant acclimation to upregulated recombination. Analysis of the progeny of plants exposed to Cu2+ and Ni2+ indicated higher stress tolerance to the heavy metal parental plants were exposed to. Tolerance was higher in plants propagated with stress for three to five generations, which resulted in longer roots than plants propagated on heavy metals for only one to two generations.Tolerance was also more prominent upon exposure to a higher concentration of salts.The progeny of stressed plants were also more tolerant to NaCl and methyl methane sulfonate.
Development of Microsatellite Loci of Pod Mahogany, Afzelia quanzensis (Fabaceae), by Illumina Shotgun Sequencing, and Cross-Amplification in A. africana. Premise of the study: Microsatellite loci were developed for Afzelia quanzensis (Fabaceae) as a first step toward investigating genetic diversity and population structure of the species in its native range. Methods and Results: Illumina shotgun sequencing was used to generate raw sequence reads, which were searched for potential microsatellite loci. A total of 70 potential microsatellite loci were tested for amplification and polymorphism, and 39 successfully amplified. Of the 39 loci that amplified, 12 were polymorphic while 27 were monomorphic. The 12 polymorphic loci were cross-amplified in A. africana, and eight successfully amplified. Conclusions: The 12 polymorphic microsatellite loci can be used for genetic studies of A. quanzensis, which can help determine its conservation status. Eight loci can also be used for genotyping in A. africana.
Bi-level Optimal Configuration of Park Energy Internet Considering Multiple Evaluation Indicators. Under the background of adhering to the path of sustainable energy development, park Energy Internet has become an important development trend in the energy field. A typical structure of park Energy Internet is built, and the models of energy equipment are established. The evaluation indicators are put forward, including comprehensive energy self-sufficiency rate, comprehensive energy utilization rate and energy shortage expectation. Furthermore, a bi-level optimal configuration model is proposed taking into account the above multiple evaluation indicators. The proposed model considers the energy shortage penalty cost for N-1 failure of energy equipment, as well as the constraints of comprehensive energy self-sufficiency, comprehensive energy utilization rate and energy shortage expectation, and a hybrid algorithm combined with cataclysmic genetic algorithm and CPLEX solver is developed to solve the model. Finally, the study of a typical residential area is carried out where the results suggest that the planning method can balance the economics, energy sustainability, efficiency and reliability of the system.
Variability for restriction fragment-length polymorphisms (RFLPs) and relationships among elite commercial inbred and virtual hybrid onion populations. Nuclear RFLPs were used to estimate relationships among 14 elite commercial inbreds of bulb onion (Allium cepa) from Holland, Japan, and the United States. Variability for known alleles at 75 RFLP loci and 194 polymorphic fragments revealed by 69 anonymous cDNA probes and a clone of alliinase were scored to yield genetically characterized and uncharacterized data sets, respectively. The inbred onion populations possessed more than two alleles at 20 of 43 (46%) codominant RFLP loci. Relationships among the inbreds were estimated by cluster analysis of simple-matching (genetically characterized data) and Jaccard (genetically uncharacterized data) coefficients using the unweighted pair group method and agreed with known pedigrees. RFLPs confidently distinguished among elite inbreds within and between specific market classes. RFLP profiles for virtual hybrids were computer-generated by combining gametic arrays among inbreds of the same market class and analyzed as described above. Allelic and genetically uncharacterized RFLPs confidently distinguished among these hybrids, even though heterozygosity for many markers produced a majority of monomorphic fragments. We randomly sampled decreasing numbers of RFLPs from the complete data sets and calculated simple-matching and Jaccard distances, noting the numbers of probes that were unable to distinguish any two inbreds or hybrids. As few as 10 polymorphic probe-enzyme combinations distinguished among all the inbreds and samples of 20 genetically characterized or 10 genetically uncharacterized clones distinguished all the virtual hybrids. This study demonstrated that the previously reported few RFLPs observed among open-pollinated (OP) onion populations were due to the highly heterozygous nature of the OP population.
Lomitapide: A guide to its use in adults with homozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia in the EU. Lomitapide (Lojuxta® [EU]; Juxtapid™ [USA]), an inhibitor of the microsomal triglyceride transfer protein, reduces lipoprotein secretion, resulting in decreases in plasma lipid levels. In a clinical trial in adults with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (a rare, potentially life-threatening, genetic disease), adjunctive treatment with oral lomitapide was associated with 40 % reductions from baseline in mean plasma low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels over a 26-week treatment period, with reductions being sustained for up to 78 weeks with continued treatment. Lomitapide is associated with a clinically manageable adverse event profile, with gastrointestinal effects being the most commonly reported adverse events.
Protection of chickens from Newcastle disease with a recombinant baculovirus subunit vaccine expressing the fusion and hemagglutinin- neuraminidase proteins. Recombinant baculoviruses containing the fusion (F) and hemagglutinin-neuraminidase (HN) glycoprotein gene of the viscerotropic velogenic (vv) Newcastle disease virus (NDV) isolate, Kr-005/00, and a lentogenic La Sota strain of the NDV were constructed in an attempt to develop an effective subunit vaccine to the recent epizootic vvNDV. The level of protection was determined by evaluating the clinical signs, mortality, and virus shedding from the oropharynx and cloaca of chickens after a challenge with vvNDV Kr-005/00. The recombinant ND F (rND F) and recombinant HN (rND HN) glycoproteins derived from the velogenic strain provided good protection against the clinical signs and mortality, showing a 0.00 PI value and 100% protection after a booster immunization. On the other hand, the combined rND F + HN glycoprotein derived from the velogenic strain induced complete protection (0.00 PI value and 100% protection) and significantly reduced the amount of virus shedding even after a single immunization. The rND F and rND HN glycoproteins derived from the velogenic strain had a slightly, but not significantly, greater protective effect than the lentogenic strain. These results suggest that the combined rND F + HN glycoprotein derived from vvNDV can be an ideal subunit marker vaccine candidate in chickens in a future ND eradication program.
Number of necessary experiments for the comparison in common bean cultivars. The objective of this research was to determine how many evaluations (experiments) were necessary to predict the performance of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) cultivars. Fourteen common beans cultivars were evaluated in nine experiments conducted in Santa Maria, in Rio Grande do Sul State, Brazil (latitude 29°42'S, longitude 53°49'W, altitude 95m) in agricultural years from 2000/2001 to 2004/2005. The evaluations were constituted by grain yield, number of pods per plant, number of seeds per pod, weight of 100 grains, final population of plants, number of days of the emergency to flowering, number of days of the emergency to harvest, height of first pod insertion, height of the final pod insertion, degree of the down and colour of grain tegument. Repeatability estimations were obtained through three methods variance, structural, and principal component analysis. In conclusion, seven evaluations are sufficient to identify superior genotypes for productive, phenologic and morphologic characteristics of the common beans, with 85% accuracy of the real value.
Detection and quantification of hepatitis a virus in Tianjin Coastal Seawater of Bohai Bay. Hepatitis A virus (HAV) is single-strainded RNA virus that causes infectious hepatitis A. Detection and quantification of hepatitis A virus in Tianjin coastal seawater of Bohai Bay were carried out by conventional RT-PCR and SYBR Green real-time quantitative RT-PCR using the primers based on the conserved sequence at the VP1-VP2 genes of HAV. The nine samples were taken at Tianjin coastal seawater of Bohai Bay locating in the south of Tanggu, in summer, autumn and winter of 2007 and spring of 2008. For viral detection, seawater samples were concentrated either using a small ultrafiltration system (Millipore Pellicon Mini TFF) or a Centriprep-100 centrifugal ultrafiltration device (Millipore Centricon Plus-70). RT-PCR analysis showed that a 192 bp HAV cDNA was amplified from all nine seawater samples and the sequence identities of these cDNAs to the homologous sequence in die GenBank were between 95% and 100%. SYBR Green real-time quantitative RT-PCR analysis indicated that HAV concentration in these samples ranged from 5.35 × 106 to 4.51 × 107 virus particles/L.
Development and evaluation of a gold nanoparticle based Lateral Flow assay (LFA) strip test for detection of Brucella spp.. The widely used serodiagnostic test (RBPT, CFT, I-ELISA and FPA) for diagnosis of brucellosis cannot detect vertically infected or carrier animals that are seronegative, a persistent source of infection to other susceptible animals in the herd. For reducing transmission of disease within the herd, these animals must be detected using a rapid, sensitive, user friendly penside diagnostic test. In the present study, Lateral Flow immunoassay (LFA) strip test was developed for detection of Brucellaspp. from clinical samples (bovine aborted foetal stomach contents). The LFA strip was fabricated by printing anti-Brucella polyclonal antibodies (PAb) and anti-bovine antibodies IgG on test and control line, respectively. For conjugation, colloidal gold nanoparticles (30 nm GNP, Sigma, USA) were conjugated with anti-brucella PAb. The LFA strip test was able to detect 107 cfu/ml B.abortus S99 inactivated organism in PBS and it did not exhibit any cross reactivity with selected non Brucella pathogens. To further validate, 115 clinical specimens were tested using LFA strip test. The relative sensitivity (DSn) and relative specificity (DSp) of LFA strip test was determined by ROC curve analysis using PCR and culture method as reference standard. DSn and DSp of LFA strip test was observed as 78.57% (95%CI: 49.2–95.3); 93.07% (95%CI: 86.2–97.2) and 80.0% (95%CI:51.9–95.7); 94.0% (95%CI:0.795–0.925) using culture and PCR as reference diagnostic tests, respectively. It may be concluded that, the LFA strip test can be used as a rapid penside diagnostic test for screening of brucellosis. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report on development of GNP based LFA strip test for detection of Brucella spp. from bovine aborted fetal content samples.
Purification and characterization of three trypsin isoforms from viscera of sardinelle (Sardinella aurita). Three trypsin isoforms A, B and C were purified to homogeneity from the viscera of sardinelle (Sardinella aurita). Purification was achieved by ammonium sulfate precipitation (20-70% (w/v)), Sephadex G-100 gel filtration and Mono Q-Sepharose anion-exchange chromatography. The molecular weights of these purified enzymes were estimated to be 28.8 kDa by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE). Based on the native PAGE and casein-zymography, each purified trypsin appeared as a single band. Trypsins A and C exhibited the maximal activity at 55°C, while trypsin B at 50°C. All isoforms showed the same optimal pH (pH 9.0) using Nα-benzoyl-dl-arginine-p-nitroanilide (BAPNA) as a substrate. The three trypsins were stable at temperatures below 40°C and over a broad pH range (7.0-11.0). The activities of the three isoforms were strongly inhibited by soybean trypsin inhibitor and phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, a serine protease inhibitor, and partially inhibited by ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid, a metalloenzyme inhibitor. Kinetic constants of trypsins A, B and C for BAPNA were evaluated at 25°C and pH 9.0. The values of Km and kcat were 0.125, 0.083 and 0.10 mM, and 2.24, 1.21 and 5.76 s-1, respectively. The N-terminal sequences of the first 10 amino acids were "I V G G Y E C Q K Y" for trypsin A and "I V G G Y E A Q S Y" for trypsins B and C. These sequences showed highly homology to other fish trypsins.
Descriptive Epidemiology of Nasal Carriage of Staphylococcus aureus and Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus among Patients Admitted to Two Healthcare Facilities in Algeria. Aim: To evaluate nasal carriage rate and variables associated with Staphylococcus aureus and methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) in patients admitted in two healthcare facilities. Results: S. aureus was isolated from 159 (26%) of the enrolled patients. Methicillin-susceptible S. aureus was isolated from 150 (24.5%) patients, and MRSA was isolated from 9 (1.5%). Cancer and previous hospitalization were associated with a significantly higher frequency of nasal S. aureus carriage among the patients admitted to the general hospital and the nephrology department, respectively. MRSA isolates were heterogeneous with respect to their staphylococcal cassette chromosome mec element (SCCmec) type, sequence type (ST), and toxin genes (pvl and tst1) content. Four isolates were attributed with the ST80-MRSA-IV clone, which is known to be predominant in Algeria. Conclusions: This is the first assessment of S. aureus and MRSA nasal carriage and associated variables in Algeria. Our findings provide also a picture of the MRSA strains circulating in the community in this geographic area. They can be useful as a guide for implementing screening and control procedures against S. aureus/MRSA in the Algerian healthcare facilities.
Non-edible oils as the potential source for the production of biodiesel in India: A review. As the stock of fossil fuels diminishing throughout the world and demands for energy based comforts and mobility ever increasing, so there is a need to increase biodiesel production. Bio diesel is an alternative diesel fuel prepared from renewable resources and is most popular as an alternative energy sources because it is non toxic and biodegradable. India has great potential for production of biodiesel from non-edible oil seeds. From about 100 varieties of oil seeds, only 10-12 varieties have been tapped so far. The promising non-edible sources in India are Madhuca Indica (Mahua),Jatropha curcas(Ratan Jyot), Pongamia pinnata (Karanja) and Melia azadirachta (Neem). This review paper assesses and integrates the biological, chemical and genetic attributes of the plant and describes about the different tree borne oilseeds in India, Extraction of oil from tree borne oilseeds, properties,composition and future potential of bio diesel If the developed process is scaled up to commercial levels then excellent business opportunity will be offered by the biodiesel and it could be a major step towards the creation of an eco-friendly transportation fuel that is relatively clean on combustion and provides farmers with substantial income.
Association of parental consanguinity with congenital malformations among Arab newborns in Jerusalem. The aim of this work was to determine the impact of parental consanguinity on congenital malformations in a mixed urban and rural Arab community in Jerusalem, Israel. Arab mothers admitted to four hospitals in west Jerusalem were interviewed after delivery. Demographic and obstetric data were recorded. Neonatal data were extracted from the medical records of the nursery. When malformations were suspected, a 4- to 10-month follow up was achieved for confirming the diagnosis. Of 561 infants, 253 (45%) were born to consanguineous couples. The incidence of major congenital malformations in the offspring was 8.7, 7.1 and 2.6% in cases of first cousins, all consanguineous, and non-consanguineous couples, respectively. No association was found between parental consanguinity and prematurity (p = 0.357) or low birth weight (p = 0.589). Parental consanguinity was also associated with an increased incidence of death in previous siblings (p < 0.000). The increased incidence of congenital malformations and infant mortality in cases of inbreeding prompt the necessity of establishing programs to avoid these complications in the offspring.
Literary representations of risk: Terror, crime and punishment. All forms of terror seem to aim at the destruction of the individual experience and judgement of people. Part of our world is threatened by political terror (as represented first by Dostoevsky) or ethnic and cultural terror (as convincingly described by J. M. Coetzee), but it seems possible, at least in principle, to find an answer to these threats. Is religion the primary remedy against nihilism and, therefore, also against terrorism as Dostoevsky believes? Or is the quasi or semi-autonomous self the major antagonist of terrorism? The genetic manipulation of the human race, as sketched by Michel Houellebecq in his novel Les Particules élémentaires (1998), holds a threat that is irreversible. The cloning of human beings, which supposedly offers a solution to many of our problems, seems too high a risk to take.
MOHAQ: Multi-Objective Hardware-Aware Quantization of recurrent neural networks. The compression of deep learning models is of fundamental importance in deploying such models to edge devices. The selection of compression parameters can be automated to meet changes in the hardware platform and application. This article introduces a Multi-Objective Hardware-Aware Quantization (MOHAQ) method, which considers hardware performance and inference error as objectives for mixed-precision quantization. The proposed method feasibly evaluates candidate solutions in a large search space by relying on two steps. First, post-training quantization is applied for fast solution evaluation (inference-only search). Second, we propose the ”beacon-based search” to retrain selected solutions only and use them as beacons to estimate the effect of retraining on other solutions. We use speech recognition models on TIMIT dataset. Experimental evaluations show that Simple Recurrent Unit (SRU)-based models can be compressed up to 8x by post-training quantization without any significant error increase. On SiLago, we found solutions that achieve 97% and 86% of the maximum possible speedup and energy saving, with a minor increase in error on an SRU-based model. On Bitfusion, the beacon-based search reduced the error gain of the inference-only search on SRU-based models and Light Gated Recurrent Unit (LiGRU)-based model by up to 4.9 and 3.9 percentage points, respectively.
Comparison of two multiplex methods for detection of respiratory viruses: Filmarray RP and xTAG RVP. We compared the FilmArray RP (Idaho Technology, Inc., Salt Lake City, UT) and the xTAG RVP (Luminex Corporation, Toronto, Canada) multiplex respiratory virus PCR methods for the detection of respiratory viruses in a set of 200 patient specimens frozen at -70°C after standard viral culture and antigen detection methods were done. Both systems detected between 40 to 50% more viruses than traditional methods, primarily rhinoviruses and human metapneumovirus. The FilmArray RP detected significantly more total viruses either alone or as part of mixed infections than the xTAG RVP, as well as an additional 21.6% more respiratory syncytial viruses. The xTAG RVP requires 5 to 6 h with 2.5 to 3 h of hands-on time, while the FilmArray RP takes about an hour with 3 to 5 min of hands-on time, making it much easier to perform.
Molecular discrimination of Phytophthora isolates on cocoa and their relationship with coconut, black pepper and bell pepper isolates based on rDNA repeat and AFLP fingerprints. Phytophthora palmivora isolates from cocoa and coconut and P. capsici isolates of cocoa, black pepper and bell pepper collected from different localities of India were examined at the molecular level using the ITS1 and ITS2 primers to amplify the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) regions of rDNA gene repeat and by AFLP analysis. An isolate of P. capsici (P575) from cocoa in Mexico was also included for comparison. ITS-RFLP revealed consistent polymorphisms that are correlated to morphological description. The AFLP fingerprints of P. palmivora from cocoa and coconut showed similar patterns but amongst the isolates of P. capsici, four AFLP fingerprint groups were evident that were distinct from the P. palmivora type. Thus, ITS regions can be used as taxonomic markers for the identification of Phytophthora associated with black pod disease of cocoa and AFLP fingerprints are useful for assessing intra-specific population variation.
Left outflow tract anomalies in children. Purpose of Review: To provide a discussion of the current knowledge of the genetics of left outflow tract of the heart, including the aortic stenosis, in children. It addresses the available means of diagnosis for syndromic and nonsyndromic left outflow tract abnormalities and implications for at-risk family members. Options for prenatal testing and recommendations for cardiac follow-up are presented. Recent Finddings: Left outflow tract cardiac anomalies in children present as a varied spectrum among and within families. Even nonsyndromic forms can be inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. These can lead to significant complications in asymptomatic individuals, making diagnosis a challenge and underscoring the importance of evaluation of at-risk family members. Summary: Improved understanding of the genetics of both syndromic and nonsyndromic left outflow tract disorders is hoped to lead to improved identification of affected children and greater ongoing cardiac follow-up for those potentially at risk.
An update on obstructive sleep apnea. Obstructive sleep apnea has become much more prevalent and is now considered the third most common respiratory condition affecting approximately 20 million Americans and an estimated 100 million people worldwide. It affects men, women and children alike. Obesity is thought to be one of the major contributors to the rise in cases. However, new technologies are starting to identify possible genetic links to the development of obstructive sleep apnea. Questionnaires and biometrics seem to be reliable methods to pre-screen people in an office setting, but the gold standard is still overnight, in-lab, polysomnography. Continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) is the most effective treatment for all levels of severity of obstructive sleep apnea, but oral devices are also effective for mild-to-moderate cases. Novel treatments with oral suction devices, hypoglossal nerve stimulation, nasal expiratory positive airway pressure devices, and pharmaceuticals are all being investigated, but have shown mixed results in effectiveness. This article is an overview of Obstructive Sleep Apnea and a review of recent diagnostic and treatment options.
A Comparison Study of Multi-Objective Bonobo Optimizers for Optimal Integration of Distributed Generation in Distribution Systems. In this paper, the three newly published Multi-Objective Bonobo Optimizer (MOBO) variants are assessed and evaluated using statistical analysis for solving the multi-objective optimization of Distributed Generation (DG) into distribution systems. The main objectives of the study are to minimize system loss and enhance voltage profile. While the first variant, MOBO1, depends on the sort and grid-index approach, the second variant, MOBO2, relies on the Non-dominated Sorting Genetic Algorithm-II (NSGA-II) algorithm technique. The last variant, MOBO3, is inspired by the Multi-objective Evolutionary Algorithm based on Decomposition (MOEA/D). The three MOBO algorithms are compared to themselves and to other algorithms solving the same optimization problem. These algorithms include the MOJAYA, Multi-Objective Artificial Ecosystem-Based Algorithm (MOAEO), Multi-Objective Gravitational Search Algorithm (MOGSA), and Multi-Objective Particle Swarm Optimization (MOPSO). The 33-bus and 85-bus radial distribution systems are used test systems for solving the optimal allocation of single- and three-DG units operating at unity power factor. In order to find the best compromise solution, the Pareto Optimal front method is adopted with the help of a fuzzy-based function. The obtained results show the effectiveness of the MOBO variants compared with other algorithms in terms of different statistical parameters and multi-objective performance metrics such as diversity, hypervolume, spacing, and set coverage. While the MOBO algorithm reduces power loss and TVD by 39.59 and 68.31% for a single DG, they are reduced to 58.13 and 88.44% for three DG units allocated to the 33-bus distribution system, respectively. On the other hand, the MOBO algorithm reduces power loss and TVD by 37.28 and 66.84% for a single DG, respectively, they are decreased to 46.35 and 82.53% for three DG units assigned to the 85-bus distribution system. Among the three MOBO variants, it is found that the MOBO1 is superior for a single-DG allocation, while the MOBO3 is the best for the allocation of three-DG units.
Development and characterization of microsatellite loci in Brasenia schreberi (Cabombaceae) based on the next-generation sequencing. To understand genetic variability of the endangered aquatic herb Brasenia schreberi (Cabombaceae), we describe 31 microsatellite markers obtained using next-generation sequencing. A total of 24 individuals from the population of Jackson Lake, USA, were genotyped for each marker. Twenty-eight markers were polymorphic. The number of alleles per locus ranged from 1 to 9; the observed and expected heterozygosities ranged from 0 to 1 and from 0 to 0.751, respectively. These markers should be useful tools for genetic variation and conservation studies of B. schreberi.
Biomedical knowledge in Mexico during the cold war and its impact in pictorial representations of homo sapiens and racial hierarchies. This paper provides an overview of the state of Mexican genetics and biomedical knowledge during the second half of the twentieth century, as well as its impact on the visual representation of human groups and racial hierarchies, based on social studies of scientific imaging and visualization (SIV) and theoretical concepts and methods. It also addresses the genealogy and shifts of the concept of race and racialization of Mexican bodies, concluding with the novel visual culture that resulted from genetic knowledge merged with the racist phenomenon in the second half of the twentieth century in Mexico.
Arrays of nanoarrays: Elements of binding. The development of strategies for the robust attachment of organized patterns of nanostructures to a variety of surfaces has been a major objective of this laboratory. One of the significant impediments to single molecule, as opposed to multiple molecule, attachment arises from the size gap or intrinsic mismatch between the size of readily obtainable "top down" nanostructures and the native size scale of the molecules of interest. Although binding structures of diameter significantly less than 100 nm can certainly be fabricated, the techniques required to generate them are not widely available to researchers and the failure rate for the production of such structures is relatively high. These concerns have motivated this laboratory to instead pursue the synthesis of adapter structures which bridge, or partially bridge, this size gap by increasing the effective footprint of a single DNA molecule. Although several different approaches to the generation of adapter structures are under parallel development in the laboratory, one is based on a totally synthetic polydentate macromolecule. In this paper, the merits of this multithiol system will be presented. The development of an experimental platform for the characterization of attachment sites and adapter structure/attachment site interactions will also be described. These platforms are compatible with a wide range of characterization methods, including scanning electron microscopy, atomic force microscopy, laser scanning confocal microscopy, scanning tunneling electron microscopy and near field scanning optical microscopy, which can be used to evaluate these structures over the macro/micro/nano size range.
Induced variability for yield and its attributing traits in cluster bean [Cyamopsis tetragonoloba (L.) Taub] through gamma irradiation. Gamma ray is an effective mutagen which creates useful variability for crop like cluster bean where the natural variation is very meagre and creation of variability by conventional methods is cumbersome. In the present study, cluster bean cv. Pusa Navbahar was treated with different level of gamma rays from 50 Gy to 600 Gy with 50Gy interval and obtained M2 population was subjected to variability estimation for yield and its attributing traits in augmented block design. The variance between the control and the mutants was found to be significant for plant height, number of pods per cluster, number of pods per plant, pod length, pod width, pulp to seed ratio. For these traits, PCV ranged from 14.28 per cent (pod width) to 31.99 per cent (pulp to seed ratio) whereas, GCV ranged from 10.10 per cent (pod width) to 24.16 per cent (pulp to seed ratio). The heritability in broad sense ranged from 50 per cent (pod width) to 79.99 per cent (Plant height). Genetic advance expressed as percentage over mean ranged from 2.06 per cent (pod width) to 222.44 per cent (plant height). The traits like plant height, pod length, pod width, pulp to seed ratio showed sufficient variability due to induced mutation. All these traits showed medium to high heritability and high genetic advance hence selection for these traits will be effective.
Efficiency of selection within sugarcane families via simulated individual BLUP. The aim of this study was to assess the efficiency of the simulated individual BLUP (BLUPIS) method in selecting genotypes within full-sib families of sugarcane in ratoon stage, through comparison with selection using the individual BLUP method. The optimal number of genotypes to be selected in the best families were established for mean stems mass, total soluble solids assay (BRIX), ton of stalks per hectare, and BRIX tons per hectare traits. Seventeen full-sib families were assessed in the Centre for Experimentation in Sugarcane, located in Oratórios, MG, Brazil. Mixed model methodology was used to predict the genotypic effects of each family and the genotypic values of each individual within family. BLUPIS method is efficient for individual selection. The optimal number of genotypes to be selected in the best family for obtaining higher efficiency of the BLUPIS method is 100 in the majority of cases.
Spondylocostal dysostosis, anal and genitourinary malformations in a fetal case: A new case of Casamassima-Morton-Nance syndrome?. Casamassima-Morton-Nance syndrome belongs to the heterogeneous group of spondylocostal dysostoses (SCD) represented by a large heterogeneous group in which diverse diagnoses, associations and modes of inheritance are found. Common features include segmentation abnormalities of the vertebrae and ribs. Here, we report on a fetal case with spondylocostal dysostosis, anal and genitourinary malformations and discuss Casamassima-Morton-Nance syndrome.
The detection of female DNA from the penis in sexual assault cases. An investigation was performed with the aim of assessing the success rate of the examination of penile swabs or imprints for the detection of the female DNA profile. Two hundred twenty seven cases from a 3-year period were retrospectively reviewed. In 57% of the cases, no suitable material was available. Of the remaining 97 cases, 26 provided a DNA profile from the female victim. It is concluded that although the total success rate is low, it is worthwhile performing the examination, especially if there is a short interval between the alleged sexual assault and the examination.
A review of ten years experience of ICSI. This review summarizes the introduction of ICSI in the early 1990s as an assisted fertilization procedure in couples with severe male factor infertility, who could not be helped by conventional IVF. As for current practice, the indications for ICSI using fresh or frozen-thawed ejaculated, epididymal or testicular sperm are reviewed as well as some reports on the use of ICSI in non-male infertility. The main steps in an ICSI cycle are well standardized by now; it is rare that ICSI cannot be carried out and the results in terms of fertilization, embryo transfer and clinical pregnancy rate have been consistent for many years, indicating that a substantial number of couples can now have their own genetic child instead of having to use artificial insemination with donor sperm. This review also emphasizes the importance of assessing the risk of ICSI for the children: there is a slight increase in de novo chromosomal abnormalities, the major congenital malformation rate is similar for IVF and ICSI (between 3 and 4%), and at ∼2 years of age the developmental outcome as assessed by the Bayley scale is similar for IVF and ICSI. Recent publications mention that a few children are affected by diseases caused by imprinting disorders. Future studies are needed to assess the association between assisted reproductive technologies and imprinting disorders. ICSI is frequently used in couples undergoing preimplantation genetic diagnosis. PGD stricto sensu as well as PGD for aneuploidy screening and for Klinefelter patients are reviewed using the ESHRE PGD Consortium data.
Screening Of camelina (Camelina Sativa L.) doubled haploid lines for freezing tolerance in the seedling stage. Freezing stress is an important abiotic stress that limiting the yield and the spatial distribution of many important crops. This study was undertaken to screen 136 doubled haploid (DH) lines of camelina (Camelina sativa L.) along with four canola (Brassica napus) cultivars (Hyola 401, Lord, Roska and Cascade) as experimental control under freezing stress conditions (-14 °C for 6 h) to identify lines with high or low level of tolerance to freezing stress for further studies. First, a protocol was developed for large scale screening of camelina germplasm under freezing stress conditions. For this purpose, an experiment with different freezing temperatures (-5, -10, -15 and -20 °C) was conducted to find an appropriate temperature that discriminated best between genotypes (i.e. the LT50 temperature). The LT50 values for camelina lines were varied between -10.2 and -17.1 °C with an average of -13.94 °C for all of the camelina lines. Therefore, we selected the -14 °C exposure for 6 h as an appropriate temperature to screening of camelina lines. The principal components of measured parameters (LT50, survival percentage, relative conductivity and scoring) was using principal component analysis that determine freezing-tolerant and freezing-sensitive lines. Among 136 doubled haploid lines, some lines (58, 62 and 101) had higher level of freezing tolerance and some of them (8, 16, 32, 91 and 107) were freezing sensitive. The selected lines in a preliminary freezing screening are useful for further evaluations.
Process optimization and bioactive compounds quantification from Dactylorhiza hatagirea tuber for alleviating glycemic and oxidative stress. Dactylorhiza hatagirea, an important source of ‘Salep,’ is a highly valued but underutilized medicinal plant of the Himalayan region. Health benefits of the species are associated with the presence of natural antioxidant that alleviates glycemic activity and oxidative stress. The present study aimed to optimize and propose an effective ultrasound-assisted extraction (UAE) method to extract glycoside (Dactylorhin E) and other polyphenol compounds using response surface methodology (RSM). Under optimal extraction conditions, total phenolics (11.42 ± 0.48 mg GAE/g DW), flavonoids content (11.46 ± 0.28 mg QE/g DW), and antioxidant activity, i.e., DPPH (1.37 ± 0.008 mM AAE/g DW) and ABTS (1.06 ± 0.008 mM AAE/g DW) and anti-glycemic, i.e., alpha-amylase (42.81 ± 0.22 % inhibition) and alpha-glucosidase (27.97 ± 0.40 % inhibition) inhibition activity were found near the model predicted values. HPLC-PDA recorded six bioactive compounds in UAE, of which Dactylorhin E (14.14 mg/g DW) and o-coumaric (3.22 mg/g DW) were most prominent. This study prepared optimized glycoside, polyphenol-rich extracts aimed to be used for the formulation of foodstuffs and phytomedicines. Furthermore, the method is reliable, simple, and an alternative to various other extraction techniques.
Affinity of anti-peptide antibodies measured by resonance energy transfer. Because of the increasing use of monoclonal anti-peptide antibodies we have undertaken to formulate a general method for the measurement of intrinsic association constants characterizing complex formation between peptide and antibody. The method is based on the phenomenon of resonance energy transfer between tryptophan-excited antibody and an appropriate fluorophor conjugated to the amino terminus of the peptide. The fluorophor we have employed is 8-(2-N-succinylaminoethylamino)-1-naphthalene-sulfonic acid with an absorption maximum at 344 nm and an emission maximum at 500 nm. The model peptide used was the sequence corresponding to residues 48-60 of the regulatory subunit of aspartyltranscarbamoylase. Three IgG and two IgM affinity-purified monoclonal anti-peptide antibodies were used in the fluorescence titration experiments. A maximum value of 2.1 × 106 M-1 was found for the IgG antibodies and a maximum of 2.7 × 104 M-1 for the IgM antibodies. These limited results suggest similar behavior for the anti-peptide B cell response with respect to affinity maturation as observed for other specificities. In particular it is likely that the IgM affinities are restricted to the potential available in the germline repertoire of variable region genes and, therefore, express only germline affinities.
The method of application and short term results of tympanostomy tubes for the treatment of primary secretory otitis media in three Cavalier King Charles Spaniel dogs. Primary secretory otitis media is an uncommon disease affecting predominantly Cavalier King Charles Spaniel dogs. Current treatment recommendations include repeated manual removal of the mucoid effusion from the tympanic cavity through a myringotomy incision and topical or systemic corticosteroids. The aim of this study was to assess the efficacy of tympanostomy tubes to provide continual tympanic cavity ventilation and drainage for the treatment of primary secretory otitis media in three dogs. Tympanostomy tubes were placed within a myringotomy incision in the pars tensa with the aid of an operating microscope. Clinical signs resolved rapidly in all cases following the procedure and all cases were asymptomatic at the time of follow-up, 8, 6 and 4 months later. Results of this study indicate that tympanostomy tubes provide continual tympanic cavity ventilation and drainage and may be an acceptable alternative to repeated myringotomy for the treatment of primary secretory otitis media.
Survival and long-term growth of eucalypts on semi-arid sites in a Mediterranean climate, South Africa§. Four experiments were established on the semi-arid west coast plain of South Africa during the 1990s. The trails tested the survival and growth of several eucalypt species and hybrids, some of which were established in a climate that is drier than their natural distribution range. The aridity indices (AI; defined as mean annual precipitation [MAP]/mean annual potential evapotranspiration) ranged from 0.21 to 0.36 and MAP from 228 to 423 mm. The driest trial site (AI = 0.21 and MAP = 228) had high levels of mortality. However, a number of species (in particular, Eucalyptus gomphocephala, E. camaldulensis and E. tereticornis, as well as individual hybrids of the latter two species with E. grandis) survived and grew well at the remaining sites. Eucalyptus cladocalyx survived well and attained competitive growth rates only on the wettest site in the group (AI = 0.36). The dominant height of the top-performing genotypes at age 5 ranged between 9 and 10 m on the two wetter sites. This corresponded to mean annual increment values in excess of 10 m3 ha−1 a−1, which is comparable to volume obtained at more favourable aridity indices in the summer rainfall zone of South Africa and exceeds the growth rates obtained in several other arid zone studies globally. The E. grandis × E. camaldulensis hybrid ranked among the top performers in two trials, but its susceptibility to recently introduced pests and relatively poor wood quality makes it a less attractive choice for planting. The high density and durability of timber, acceptable growth rate (given the low rainfall conditions), and low pest and disease incidence make E. gomphocephala and E. cladocalyx the species of choice for planting in the drier and relatively wetter sections of the semi-arid zone, respectively.
Quantitative and qualitative research of surface bacteria on the floor of station restrooms with two types of cleaning method. There are two types of method for cleaning station restrooms. One method uses water for cleaning floors, whereas the second does not. This study describes quantitative and qualitative research into the surface bacteria found on station restroom floors where these two cleaning methods were used. Samples for analysis were collected from five positions on the floor of each restroom in each railway station investigated. Samples were treated using a conventional culture method to measure the concentrations of surface bacteria on each restroom floor. Samples were then analyzed with bacterial 16S rRNA genes to analysis the microbiomes on these restroom floors. Results showed that the restrooms cleaned without water had lower concentrations of bacteria, than the microbiomes from restroom floors cleaned with water.
Opportunities and constraints for forest climate mitigation. Reversing forest losses through restoration, improvement, and conservation is a critical goal for greenhouse gas mitigation. Here, we examine some ecological, demographic, and economic opportunities and constraints on forest-loss mitigation activities. Reduced deforestation and forest degradation could cut global deforestation rates in half by 2030, preserving 1.5 billion to 3 billion metric tons of carbon dioxide-equivalent (tCO2e) emissions yearly. Our new economic modeling for the United States suggests that greenhouse gas payments of up to50 per tCO2e could reduce greenhouse gas emissions by more than 700 million tCO2e per year through afforestation, forest management, and bioelectricity generation. However, simulated carbon payments also imply the reduction of agricultural land area in the United States by 10% or more, decreasing agricultural exports and raising commodity food prices, imports, and leakage. Using novel transgenic eucalypts as our example, we predict selective breeding and genetic engineering can improve productivity per area, but maximizing productivity and biomass could make maintaining water supply, biodiversity, and other ecosystem services a challenge in a carbon-constrained world.
Involuntarily childless women between psychoanalysis and reproductive medicine. The author suggests that the question of reproduction and the effects of this problem are a life-long process. Today's reproductive medicine not only holds out opportunities for having a child of one's own, it also involves hazards such as physical risks, psychic suffering, narcissistic omnipotence fantasies, and genetic manipulation. At the same time it prevents a clear-cut abandonment of the prospect of having a child and the necessary process of mourning involved, because there is always the implicit promise that one's destiny in this respect is determined not by biology but by technology. Auhagen-Stephanos can look back on 25 years experience in the psychoanalytic treatment of women whose desire for a child has remained unfulfilled. With reference to a detailed case study, she provides a discussion of the theoretical hypotheses on the psychodynamics of pregnancy and the problems associated with the unfulfilled desire for a child.
Biodegradation of polyethylene microplastic particles by the fungus Aspergillus flavus from the guts of wax moth Galleria mellonella. Polyethylene (PE) products are widely used in daily life, agriculture, and industry because of their convenience and economic value. However, PE is one of the polymer materials remarkably resistant to degradation. Current methods of plastic waste disposal pose a threat to the environment and produce microplastic particles (MPP), which becomes a global environmental concern because of its accumulation. In this study, a PE-degrading fungus Aspergillus flavus named PEDX3, was isolated from the gut contents of wax moth Galleria mellonella. The results indicated that high-density polyethylene (HDPE) MPP was degraded into the MPP with a lower molecular weight by strain PEDX3 after 28 days incubation. In addition, Fourier Transform - Infrared Spectroscopy (FT-IR) results showed the appearance of carbonyl groups and ether groups of MPP, which also validated the degradation of PE. Furthermore, the potential degradation enzymes were investigated by Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR). Finally, two laccase-like multicopper oxidases (LMCOs) genes, AFLA_006190 and AFLA_053930, displayed up-regulated expression during the degradation process, which may be the candidate PE-degrading enzymes. These results have demonstrated that the A. flavus strain PEDX3 has an ability to degrade microplastic particles and the two PE-degrading enzymes provide a promising application for the PE MPP remediation.
Feeling inter- or intramolecular interactions with the polymer chain as probe: Recent progress in SMFS studies on macromolecular interactions. Single-molecule force spectroscopy (SMFS) opens new avenues for elucidating the structures and functions of large coiled molecules such as synthetic and biopolymers at the single-molecule level. In addition, some of the features in the force-extension curves (i.e. force spectra) are closely related to primary/secondary structures of the molecules being stretched. For example, the long force plateau in the DNA stretching curve is related to the double-helix structure. These features can be regarded as the force fingerprints of individual macromolecules. These force fingerprints can therefore be used as indicators/criteria of single-molecule manipulation during the measurement of some unknown intra- or intermolecular interactions. By comparing the force spectra of a single polymer chain before and after interaction with other molecules, the mode/strength of such molecular interactions can be derived. This Review focuses on recent advances in AFM-based SMFS studies on molecular interactions in both synthetic and biopolymer systems using a single macromolecular chain as probe, including interactions between nucleic acids and proteins, mechanochemistry of covalent bonds, conformation-regulated enzymatic reactions, adsorption and desorption of biopolymers on a flat surface or from the nanopore of a carbon nanotube, and polymer interactions in the condensed state.
Screening of Iraqi barley accessions under PEG-induced drought conditions. Among abiotic stresses, drought influences plant growth and productivity, and plant stress responses depend on stress intensity and genotype. The effects of simulated drought stress on germination parameters were tested for tolerance and sensitivity in 59 barley accessions from all regions of Iraq and phenotypic, physiological, and biochemical responses associated with drought stress were investigated. Stress treatments with polyethylene glycol (PEG) reduced the germination rate and dramatically delayed the development of the seedlings. Significant changes in the physiological and biochemical profiles in barley accessions were observed. A smaller reduction in water absorption of seeds was observed across all accessions, while all biochemical characteristics except total flavonoid content were increased with the increase in water deficiency in most accessions. Among the 59 barley accessions, ABN was the most tolerant accession, while Black-Garmiyan was the most drought-prone. Significant relationships were found between most trait pairs, with 24 significant associations under no stress, 39 significant correlations under the 10.25% PEG treatment, and 60 significant correlations under the 20.50% PEG treatment. According to the key importance analysis, seed water uptake, total phenol content, soluble sugar content, and catalase are classified as relative significance traits for germination percentage, root and shoot length under stress conditions.
Brain Meta-Transcriptomics from Harbor Seals to Infer the Role of the Microbiome and Virome in a Stranding Event. Marine diseases are becoming more frequent, and tools for identifying pathogens and disease reservoirs are needed to help prevent and mitigate epizootics. Meta-transcriptomics provides insights into disease etiology by cataloguing and comparing sequences from suspected pathogens. This method is a powerful approach to simultaneously evaluate both the viral and bacterial communities, but few studies have applied this technique in marine systems. In 2009 seven harbor seals, Phoca vitulina, stranded along the California coast from a similar brain disease of unknown cause of death (UCD). We evaluated the differences between the virome and microbiome of UCDs and harbor seals with known causes of death. Here we determined that UCD stranded animals had no viruses in their brain tissue. However, in the bacterial community, we identified Burkholderia and Coxiella burnetii as important pathogens associated with this stranding event. Burkholderia were 100% prevalent and ~2.8 log2 fold more abundant in the UCD animals. Further, while C. burnetii was found in only 35.7% of all samples, it was highly abundant (~94% of the total microbial community) in a single individual. In this harbor seal, C. burnetii showed high transcription rates of invading and translation genes, implicating it in the pathogenesis of this animal. Based on these data we propose that Burkholderia taxa and C. burnetii are potentially important opportunistic neurotropic pathogens in UCD stranded harbor seals.
A near-optimum multiuser receiver for STBC MC-CDMA systems based on minimum conditional BER criterion and genetic algorithm-assisted channel estimation. The implementation of efficient baseband receivers characterized by affordable computational load is a crucial point in the development of transmission systems exploiting diversity in different domains. This would be a crucial point in the future development of 4G systems, where space, time, and frequency diversity will be combined together in order to increase system throughput. In this framework, a linear multiuser detector for MC-CDMA systems with Alamouti's Space-Time Block Coding (STBC), which is inspired by the concept of Minimum Conditional Bit Error Rate (MCBER), is proposed. The MCBER combiner has been implemented in adaptive way by using Least-Mean-Square (LMS) optimization. The estimation of Channel State Information (CSI), necessary to make practically feasible the MCBER detection, is aided by a Genetic Algorithm (GA). The obtained receiver scheme is near-optimal, as both LMS-based MCBER and GA-assisted channel estimation perform closely to optimum in fulfilling their respective tasks. Simulation results evidenced that the proposed receiver always outperforms state-of-the-art receiver schemes based on EGC and MMSE criterion exploiting the same degree of channel knowledge.
IMPACT OF CHEMICAL HERBICIDES TO BREAD WHEAT GENOTYPES. This study was aimed to investigate effect of wheat cultivates to herbicides. A field experiment was conducted at the Research Station of the Field Crops Department at the College of Agricultural, University of Tikrit during winter season 2017-2018. Factorial Experiment within Randomized Complete Block design with three replicates were used. This experiment contains two variables first was used the herbicide (Atlantis, Pallas, Chevalier) and control. The second variable includes four cultivates (Al-Hashimiyah, Al-Baraka, Nor, and Door 29). The results Al-Baraka revealed that the highest plant height (75.91 cm), number of spikes (372.67 m2) and the number of shoots m2(355.41), while the cultivate Noor had the highest value, number of grains spike-1(42.67) and the total grain yield (4.82) ton ha-1. Atlantis herbicide recorded the highest number of tillers square meter-1(387.50) and the treatment Balas recorded the highest value in the weight of a thousand grains (40.24 g) and total grain yield (2.00 tons. ha-1). The interaction between genotypes and pesticides produced highest grain yield (6.31) tons.ha-1.
Linking Essentialist and Constructivist Ethnicity. This article argues that the essentialist and the constructivist positions within theories of ethnicity are in fact compatible if one introduces a concept here called "internalized fluid capacities", connoting that which is inherently (genetically) dispositional - and in that sense biologically "anticipated" - but which remains to be developed into observable social characteristics through sociocultural impact. This perspective is based on the genetic capacity to mold or "instruct" the development of an organism from its embryonic state and onwards by using prior stages as points of departure for further instructions. In this way, certain fluid capacities become imprinted in individuals and collectivities through reinforcing interaction with the ambient society. These capacities may then harden and develop into apparent "essentials", forming a group's collective self-image. The article concludes with the suggestion that this explanatory model can be usefully applied to the debate around Swedish governmental definitions of Saamihood.
Phytochemical and morpho-physiological variations in sea buckthorn (Hippophae rhamnoides L.) populations of Taleghan region in Iran. Background: Sea buckthorn is a thorny shrub with nitrogen-fixing ability belonging to the Elaeagnaceae family. Objective: In this study, phytochemical and morpho-physiological traits in wild populations of sea buckthorn were investigated in two consecutive years in the Taleghan region of Iran. Methods: Some morpho-physiological traits in several parts of plants were measured. Also, some phytochemical analysis of fruit pulp (through spectrophotometric methods) and seed oil content was performed. Results: The results showed that the populations had significant differences (P ≤ 0.01 or P ≤ 0.05) in most of the main morpho-physiological traits and all phytochemical properties of leaves and fruits in growing seasons during two studied years. The highest and lowest amount of some more important traits of fruit were ranged from 16.02 to 48.55 mg/g, total phenol (Jostan-Bozaj), 0.71 to 1.65 mg/g carotenoid (Gelyard-Fashandak), 0.92 to 2.46 mg/g flavonoid (Dehdar-Shahrak), and 1.37 to 10.00 mg/g vitamin C (Gelyard-Shahrak). Factor analysis based on PCA revealed that the first three-component contributed about 70 and 76% of the total variation for phytochemical and morpho-physiological traits of populations, respectively. The first component (PC1) was contributed by some traits such as fruit glucose, total soluble solids (TSS), vitamin C, and leaf lycopene for phytochemical traits. Conclusion: The wide range of variation across the sea buckthorn populations in this region can be used for the selection of suitable genotypes for improvement and pharmaceutical exploitation of this plant in Iran.
Nitrogen application improved photosynthetic productivity, chlorophyll fluorescence, yield and yield components of two oat genotypes under saline conditions. Understanding the interaction between salinity and nitrogen (N) nutrition is of great economic importance to improve plant growth and grain yield for oat plants. The objective of this study was to investigate whether N application could alleviate the negative effect of salinity (NaCl) stress on oat physiological parameters and yield performance. Two oat genotypes with contrasting salt tolerance response (6-SA120097, a salt-tolerant genotype SA and 153-ND121147, salt-sensitive ND) were grown under four N rates (0, 100, 200, and 400 mg N pot -1 ) in non-saline and saline (100 mM NaCl) conditions. The results showed that salinity, N fertilization and their interaction significantly affected the photosynthetic rate, transpiration rate, agronomic nitrogen use efficiency (aNUE), physiological nitrogen efficiency (pNUE) and apparent nitrogen recovery (ANR), seed number, and grain yield. Saline stress reduced gas exchange rate, nitrogen use efficiency (NUE), grain yield, and yield components. N fertilization increased photosynthetic productivity and chlorophyll fluorescence, resulting in improved grain yields and yield components for both genotypes. On average, the photosynthetic rate was increased by 38.7%, 74.1%, and 98.8% for SA and by 49.8%, 77.6%, and 110% for ND, respectively, under the N rates of 100, 200, and 400 mg N pot -1 , as compared with non-fertilized treatment. In addition, grain yield was increased by 80.6% for genotype SA and 88.7% for genotype ND under higher N application rate (200 mg N pot -1 ) in comparison with the non-nitrogen treatment. Our experimental results showed that an increase of N supply can alleviate the negative effects induced by salinity stress and improved plant growth and yield by maintaining the integrity of the photosynthesis and chlorophyll fluorescence processes of oat plants, which provides a valuable agronomic strategy for improving oat production in salt-affected soils.
Genetic diversity of Pyrenophora teres in Algeria. Barley net blotch is one of the most widespread and destructive foliar diseases of barley crops worldwide. The causal fungal agent, Pyrenophora teres (anamorphic stage: Drechslera teres) occurs in two forms, P. teres f. maculata (Ptm) and P. teres f. teres (Ptt) exhibiting the spot and net type symptoms, respectively. In this study, sixty-one P. teres single conidia isolates were obtained from different cereal-growing areas in Algeria. Fungal isolates of net and spot forms were identified using appropriate form-specific SNP primers. The results indicated that 57.38% of the isolates were Ptm, while 42.62% were identified as Ptt. Mating-type assessments of P. teres isolates were conducted using MAT-specific single nucleotide polymorphism primers. Among the tested strains of Ptt, 19 were found as MAT1-2 and only 7 were determined as MAT 1–1; while 27 were identified as MAT 1–1, and 8 were found as MAT1-2 for the Ptm population. Inter-simple sequence repeat markers (ISSR) were used to examine genetic variation and relationships within the P. teres population. The similarity rates were found as 0.60 and 0.63 within Ptt and Ptm populations, respectively. Our results suggested that both populations are reproducing sexually. It appears that P. teres f. teres population is reproducing exclusively sexually and P. teres f. maculata population is reproducing mostly sexually, but asexual reproduction is also occurring. Obviously, ascospore production is a key epidemiological aspect, but in the case of P. teres f. maculata, conidia may also be playing a role.
Topology design and kinematic optimization of cyclical 5-DoF parallel manipulator with proper constrained limb. This paper proposes topology design and kinematic optimization of cyclical 5-degree-of-freedom (DoF) parallel manipulator with proper constrained limb. Firstly, a type of cyclical 5-DoF parallel manipulators with proper constrained limb is proposed by analyzing DoF of the proper constrained limb within workspace. Exampled by a cyclical 5-DoF parallel manipulator with the topology 4-UPS&1-RPS, its motion mapping model is formulated. By taking the reciprocal product of a wrench on a twist as the generalized virtual power, the local and global kinematic performance indices are provided. Then, on the basis of the actuated and constrained singularity analysis of the 4-UPS&1-RPS parallel manipulator within the position and pose workspace, the topology design of the manipulator without singularity is carried out, and its reachable and prescribed workspaces are obtained. Finally, by maximizing the global kinematic performance index and subjecting to a set of appropriate constraint conditions, the kinematic optimal design of the 4-UPS&1-RPS parallel manipulator is carried out utilizing the genetic algorithm of MATLAB optimization toolbox.
Comics and revolution as global public health intervention: The Case of Lissa. In this article, we discuss the inextricable entanglement of public health and political revolution, and why comics is a particularly amenable medium to explore how different people come to terms with illness and mortality against the backdrop of political, economic, and environmental crises. We discuss our process in creating a sequential comic narrative, Lissa, that portrays a working-class Egyptian family, informed by hundreds of interviews and ethnographic research in Egypt on the vulnerabilities that expose people to kidney and liver disease and the difficulties of accessing proper treatment. Lissa also draws on ethnographic research and interviews in the U.S. on a seemingly unrelated topic - the social and political calculus of managing genetic risk for breast and ovarian cancer within a commercial healthcare system. We draw out the similarities in bioethical dilemmas between these two disparate clinical realities by composing an unlikely friendship between two fictional characters: Anna, the daughter of an American oil company executive living in Cairo, who has a family history of breast cancer - and Layla, the daughter of the porter of Anna's apartment building, who grows to become a resolute physician struggling for better public health justice and rights in Egypt.
Two new species of Stillabothrium (Cestoda: Rhinebothriidea) from stingrays of the genus Fontitrygon from Senegal. Morphological and molecular analyses of cestode specimens collected during survey work of batoid elasmobranchs and their parasites in Senegal revealed two new species of the rhinebothriidean cestode genus Stillabothrium Healy et Reyda 2016. Stillabothrium allisonae Dedrick et Reyda sp. n. and Stillabothrium charlotteae Iwanyckyj, Dedrick et Reyda sp. n. are both described from Fontitrygon margaritella (Compagno et Roberts) and Fontitrygon margarita (Günther). Both new cestode species overlap in geographic distribution, host use and proglottid morphology, but are distinguished from each other, and from the other seven described species of Stillabothrium, on the basis of their pattern of bothridial loculi. Phylogenetic analyses based on sequence data for 1,084 bp from the D1–D3 region of 28S rDNA that included multiple specimens of both new species and eight other species of Stillabothrium corroborated the morphologically-determined species boundaries. The phylogenetic analyses indicate that S. allisonae sp. n. and S. charlotteae sp. n. are sister species, a noteworthy pattern given that the two species of the stingray genus Fontitrygon they both parasitise, F. margaritella and F. margarita, are also sister species. Although species of Stillabothrium vary widely in their patterns of facial loculi, the variation does not appear to correlate with phylogeny. Most species of Stillabothrium parasitise myliobatiform elasmobranch genera of the Dasyatidae Jordan. This study brings the number of described species of Stillabothrium to nine, three of which occur in the eastern Atlantic, two of which occur off the northern coast of Australia, and four of which are from coastal Borneo.
Bioengineering: The advent of metabiology (part ii). The ability to modify or replace organs or functions and to intervene in the transmission of hereditary characteristics is a fundamental turning point in the development of living organisms and of bioengineering. The theoretical potential of metabiology — the intervention from the outside on functions, organs and sub-organs through artificial organs as well as genetic engineering — is briefly reviewed. Specific goals are proposed and engineering capabilities needed to achieve them are assessed. The impact on engineering and bioengineering of metabiology is examined and some fundamental issues of public policy concerning metabiology and bioengineering are proposed. (Part 1 of this paper was published in the July-Sept. 1981 issue of the Journal of Clinical Engineering.).
Pyruvate decarboxylase: A key enzyme for the oxidative metabolism of lactic acid by Acetobacter pasteurianus. Acetobacter pasteurianus, an obligately oxidative bacterium, is the first organism shown to utilize pyruvate decarboxylase (PDC) as a central enzyme for oxidative metabolism. In plants, yeast, and other bacteria, PDC functions solely as part of the fermentative ethanol pathway. During the growth of A. pasteurianus on lactic acid, the central intermediate pyruvate is cleaved to acetaldehyde and CO2 by PDC. Acetaldehyde is subsequently oxidized to its final product, acetic acid. The presence of the PDC enzyme in A. pasteurianus was confirmed by zymograms stained for acetaldehyde production, enzyme assays using alcohol dehydrogenase as the coupling enzyme, and by cloning and characterization of the pdc operon. A. pasteurianus pdc was also expressed in recombinant Escherichia coli. The level of PDC activity was regulated in response to growth substrate, highest with lactic acid and absent with mannitol. The translated PDC sequence (548 amino acids) was most similar to that of Zymomonas mobilis, an obligately fermentative bacterium. A second operon (aldA) was also found which is transcribed divergently from pdc. This operon encodes a putative aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALD2; 357 amino acids) related to class III alcohol dehydrogenases and most similar to glutathione-dependent formaldehyde dehydrogenases from α-Proteobacteria and Anabeana azollae.
Photoperiodic Flowering Response of Essential Oil, Grain, and Fiber Hemp (Cannabis sativa L.) Cultivars. Cultivation of hemp (Cannabis sativa L.) in tropical and subtropical regions can be challenging if the flowering behavior of a given cultivar is unknown, poorly understood, or not accurately selected for the photoperiod. Identifying cultivars adapted to local environmental conditions is key to optimizing hemp vegetative and flowering performance. We investigated the effects of varying light cycles in regulating extension growth and flowering response of 15 essential oil and 12 fiber/grain hemp cultivars both indoors and outdoors. Plants were subjected to 11 photoperiods in the controlled rooms ranging from 12 to 18 h, and natural day length in the field. The critical photoperiod threshold was identified for seven essential oil cultivars and two fiber/grain cultivars. “Cherry Wine-CC,” “PUMA-3,” and “PUMA-4” had the shortest critical day length between 13 h 45 min and 14 h. The flowering of essential oil cultivars was generally delayed by 1–2 days when the photoperiod exceeded 13 h compared with 12 h, and flowering was further delayed by 7–8 days when the photoperiod exceeded 14 h. In fiber/grain cultivars, flowering was generally delayed by 1–3 days when the day length exceeded 14 h. Flowering for most essential oil cultivars was delayed by 5–13 days under a 14-h photoperiod compared with 13 h 45 min, suggesting a photoperiod difference as little as 15 min can significantly influence the floral initiation of some essential oil cultivars. Cultivars represented by the same name but acquired from different sources can perform differently under the same environmental conditions, suggesting genetic variation among cultivars with the same name. Average days to flower of fiber/grain cultivars was correlated with reported cultivar origin, with faster flowering occurring among northern cultivars when compared with southern cultivars. Plant height generally increased as the day length increased in essential oil cultivars but was not affected in fiber/grain cultivars. In addition, civil twilight of ~2 μmol·m−2·s−1 was discovered to be biologically effective in regulating hemp flowering. Collectively, we conclude that most of the essential oil cultivars and some southern fiber/grain cultivars tested express suitable photoperiods for tropical and sub-tropical region cultivation.
Within-herd prevalence thresholds for herd-level detection of mastitis pathogens using multiplex real-time PCR in bulk tank milk samples. The objective of the study was to assess the value of quantitative multiplex real-time PCR examination of bulk tank milk samples for bovine mastitis pathogens as a tool for herd level diagnosis. Using a logistic regression model, this study is aimed at calculating the threshold level of the apparent within-herd prevalence as determined by quarter milk sample cultivation of all lactating cows, thus allowing the detection of a herd positive for a specific pathogen within certain probability levels. A total of 6,335 quarter milk samples were collected and cultured from 1,615 cows on 51 farms in Germany. Bulk tank milk samples were taken from each farm and tested by bacterial culture as well as the commercial PCR assay Mastit 4A (DNA Diagnostic A/S, Risskov, Denmark) identifying Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus dysgalactiae, Streptococcus agalactiae, and Streptococcus uberis. In addition, PCR was performed on pooled herd milk samples containing milk aliquots from all lactating cows in each of the 51 herds. Only 1 out of the 51 herds was found PCR positive for Streptococcus agalactiae in bulk tank and pooled herd milk samples, and cultured quarter milk samples. Spearman's rank correlations between the cycle threshold value of bulk tank milk PCR and the apparent within-herd prevalence were calculated in regard to Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus dysgalactiae, and Streptococcus uberis. For these pathogens, significant correlations were found. If 1 bulk tank milk sample per herd was tested, the estimated within-herd prevalence thresholds for 90% probability of detection were 27.6% for Staphylococcus aureus, 9.2% for Streptococcus dysgalactiae, and 13.8% for Streptococcus uberis on the cow level. On the quarter level, the within-herd prevalence had to be at least 32.6% for Staphylococcus aureus, 1.7% for Streptococcus dysgalactiae, and 4.3% for Streptococcus uberis to detect a herd as positive using a single bulk milk sample. The results indicate that mastitis pathogens in bulk tank milk can be identified by the applied PCR assay. Bulk tank milk examination is not a reliable tool for the identification of the named pathogens by single testing, but might be a valuable monitoring tool when used frequently with repeated testing. Furthermore, this approach could be a useful monitoring tool for detecting new pathogen occurrence in the herd.
Homogeneous methylation of wood pulp cellulose dissolved in LiOH/urea/H2O. Spruce sulphite cellulose (number average degree of polymerization 620) dissolved in an aqueous solution of 8% (w/w) LiOHH2O and 12% (w/w) urea was methylated with dimethyl sulphate (DMS). By varying the reaction temperature between 22 and 50 °C, the molar ratio between 9 and 15 mol DMS per mol anhydroglucose unit, and the reaction time from 4 to 24 h, methyl cellulose (MC) with degree of substitution (DS) values in the range of 1.07 and 1.59 was prepared. The chemical structure of MC was analysed by FTIR and 1H NMR spectroscopy. The turbidity (given in nephelometric turbidity units, NTU) of the aqueous solution of MC reached an optimum of 10 NTU for a product obtained with 12 mol DMS/mol AGU at 50 °C. GPC measurements revealed polymer degradation to a certain extent. The intrinsic viscosity and the Huggins constant k of the MC samples increased with increasing DS value. The MC samples possess k values higher than 0.8, indicating association of the polymer chain. The zero-shear viscosity decreased with increase of both temperature and the amount of methylation agent due to the depolymerization. During the heating/cooling cycle (20-90 °C) of the aqueous solutions of MC, it was observed that samples synthesized at 22 °C with DS values lower than 1.3 did not undergo phase separation in aqueous solution. Phase separation hysteresis with a precipitation temperature up to 80 °C was obtained for aqueous solutions of MC with DS values between 1.07 and 1.66 synthesized at higher temperatures. The functionalization pattern determined by GLC of the corresponding partially methylated glucitol acetates is close to randomness and comparable with those of commercial MC samples.
Visual displays that directly interface and provide read-outs of molecular states via molecular graphics processing units. The monitoring of molecular systems usually requires sophisticated technologies to interpret nanoscale events into electronic-decipherable signals. We demonstrate a new method for obtaining read-outs of molecular states that uses graphics processing units made from molecular circuits. Because they are made from molecules, the units are able to directly interact with molecular systems. We developed deoxyribozyme-based graphics processing units able to monitor nucleic acids and output alphanumerical read-outs via a fluorescent display. Using this design we created a molecular 7-segment display, a molecular calculator able to add and multiply small numbers, and a molecular automaton able to diagnose Ebola and Marburg virus sequences. These molecular graphics processing units provide insight for the construction of autonomous biosensing devices, and are essential components for the development of molecular computing platforms devoid of electronics. Molecular computing: Graphics processing units made from molecular circuits can monitor nucleic acids and output alphanumerical read-outs via a fluorescent display. A molecular 7-segment display, a molecular calculator able to add and multiply small numbers, and a molecular automaton able to diagnose viral nucleic acid sequences are reported. These units provide insight for the construction of autonomous biosensing devices and computing platforms devoid of electronics.
Experiments Directed toward the Total Synthesis of Terpenes. XVII. Development of Methods for the Synthesis of Pentacyclic Triterpenes Based on a Mechanistic Interpretation of the Stereochemical Outcome of the Friedel–Crafts Cyclialkylation Reaction. The α-methylene ketone 11 was prepared and found to undergo conjugate addition with m-methoxybenzylmagnesium chloride with great facility. The initial adduct was trapped with acetic anhydride, and the resulting enol acetate 12 was used either in methylation experiments to prepare vicinal-dimethylated ketone 13 or to generate the ketone 16 by saponification. Cyclization of the former ketone 13 with polyphosphoric acid served to delineate a route to β-amyrin-type triterpenes, while polyphosphoric acid cyclization of the product from methyllithium and the latter ketone 16 provided a means for the construction of friedelin-type triterpenes. The stereochemical outcome of the latter cyclialkylation reaction is interpreted in the light of recent mechanistic concepts.
The usefulness of aphid transmission as a taxonomic criterion for potyviruses.. In the past vector relationships have been one of the criteria used for delineating plant virus taxa. The proposed family, the Potyviridae, continues that practice. Aphid transmission of viruses within the genus Potyvirus is a useful characteristic in terms of identification, but is of only limited use in terms of taxonomy. This conclusion is based on a greater understanding of the molecular biology of potyviruses. The molecular basis of aphid transmission is not well understood at the present, but these data suggest that, beyond disease diagnosis, virus identification and characterization, and potential identification of genome microheterogeneity, aphid transmission should only be considered as a minor taxonomic criterion.
New species in aspergillus section usti and an overview of aspergillus section cavernicolarum. Aspergillus sections Usti and Cavernicolarum are accommodated in the subgenus Nidulantes. In the present study, a polyphasic approach using morphology and multi-gene phylogeny was applied to investigate the taxonomy of these two sections. Based on the phylogenetic analysis, Aspergillus section Usti includes 25 species, which can be assigned to four series: Calidousti, Deflecti, Monodiorum and Usti. Aspergillus sigarelli is newly described in this section and this species was isolated from a cigarette from PR China and belongs to series Calidousti. It is clearly distinct from other members in this series based on ITS, BenA, CaM and RPB2 sequences. Aspergillus section Usti members like A. calidoustus and A. granulosus are important opportunistic pathogens, it is speculative that more pathogenetic species will be found by using polyphasic taxonomy approaches. Aspergillus section Cavernicolarum includes five species, the growth rates on agar media and size and ornamentation of conidia are important characters for differentiating species in section Cavernicolarum.
Food Is Medicine: A Qualitative Analysis of Patient and Institutional Barriers to Successful Surgical Nutrition Practices in an Enhanced Recovery After Surgery Setting. Background: Close adherence to the Enhanced Recovery After Surgery (ERAS) program is associated with improved outcomes. A nutrition-focused qualitative analysis of patient experience and of ERAS implementation across our province was conducted to better understand the barriers to successful adoption of ERAS nutrition elements. Methods: Enrolled colorectal patients (n = 27) were asked to describe their surgical experience. Narrative interviews (n = 20) and focus groups (n = 7) were transcribed verbatim and analyzed inductively for food and nutrition themes. Qualitative data sources (n = 198 documents) collected throughout our implementation of ERAS were categorized as institutional barriers that impeded the successful adoption of ERAS nutrition practices. Results: We identified patient barriers related to 3 main themes. The first theme, Mistaken nutrition facts & beliefs, describes how information provision was a key barrier to the successful adoption of nutrition elements. Patients held misconceptions and providers tended to provide them with contradictory nutrition messages, ultimately impeding adequate food intake and adherence to ERAS elements. The second theme, White bread is good for the soul?, represents a mismatch between prescribed medical diets and patient priorities. The third theme, Food is medicine, details patient beliefs that food is healing; the perception that nutritious food and dietary support was lacking produced dissatisfaction among patients. Overall, the most important institutional barrier limiting successful adoption of nutrition practices was the lack of education for patients and providers. Conclusion: Applying a patient-centered model of care that focuses on personalizing the ERAS nutrition elements might be a useful strategy to improve patient satisfaction, encourage food intake, correct previously held beliefs, and promote care adherence.
Acetate-utilizing bacteria at an oxic-anoxic interface in the Baltic Sea. Pelagic redoxclines represent chemical gradients of elevated microbial activities. While chemolithoautotrophic microorganisms in these systems are well known as catalysts of major biogeochemical cycles, comparable knowledge on heterotrophic organisms is scarce. Thus, in this study, identity and biogeochemical involvement of active heterotrophs were investigated in stimulation experiments and activity measurements based on samples collected from pelagic redoxclines of the central Baltic Sea in 2005 and 2009. In the 2009 samples, 13C-acetate 16S rRNA stable isotope probing (16S rRNA-SIP) identified gammaproteobacteria affiliated with Colwellia sp. and Neptunomonas sp. in addition to epsilonproteobacteria related to Arcobacter spp. as active heterotrophs at the oxic-anoxic interface layer. Incubations from sulfidic waters were dominated by two phylogenetic subgroups of Arcobacter. In the 2005 samples, organics, manganese(IV), and iron(III) were added to the sulfidic waters, followed by the determination of metal reduction and identification of the stimulated organisms. Here, the same Arcobacter and Colwellia subgroups were stimulated as in 2009, with Arcobacter predominating in samples, in which manganese(IV) reduction was highest. Our results offer new insights into the heterotrophic bacterial assemblage of Baltic Sea pelagic redoxclines and suggest Arcobacter spp. as a heterotroph with presumed relevance also for manganese cycling.
Genetic paternity analyses in Little Owls (Athene noctua): Does the high rate of paternal care select against extra-pair young?. Previous studies have shown that extra-pair fertilizations are much less frequent in Non-Passeriformes, especially in raptors, than in Passeriformes. Low breeding densities, high breeding synchrony and high rates of paternal effort have been discussed as possible causes of these low extra-pair fertilization rates. Using DNA fingerprinting, we studied the mating system of Little Owls (Athene noctua) in a population of relatively high breeding density and comparatively low breeding synchrony. We found no cases of extra-pair fertilization among 53 nestlings of 16 breeding pairs. We conclude that paternal effort is probably the most important factor in preventing extra-pair fertilizations in Little Owls.
The nucleotide sequences of the initiator transfer RNAs from bean cytoplasm and chloroplasts. The initiator tRNAsMet from the cytoplasm and chloroplasts of Phaseolus vulgaris have been purified and sequenced.The sequence of bean oytoplasmic initiatortRNAsiMet is : pA-U-C-A-G-A-G-U-m1G-m2G-C-G-C-A-G-C-G-G-A-A-G-C-G-U-m2G-G-V-G-G-G-C-C-C-A-V-t6A-A-C-C-C-A-C-A-G-m7G-D-m5C-C-C-A-G-G-A-ψ-C-G-m1-A-A-C-C-U-Gm-G-C-U-C-U-G-A-U-A-C-C-AOH. The sequence of bean cytoplasmic tRNAiMet is almost identical to that of wheat germ and shows a high degree of homology with other cytoplasmic initiator tRNAs.The sequence of bean chloroplast initiator tRSAfMet is : pC-G-C-G-G-A-G-U-A-G-A-G-C-A-A-C-U-U-Gm-G-D-A-G-C-V-C-G-C-A-A-G-G-C-U-C-A-U-A-A-C-C-U-U-G-A-A-m7G-acp3U-U-A-C-G-G-G-T-ψ-C-A-A-A-U-C-C-C-G-U-C-U-C-C-G-C-A-A-C-C-AOH. Bean chloroplast initiator tRSAfMet sequence shows procaryotic characteristics at the 5′ end of the acceptor stem and in the TψC loop, but also contains some distinctive features.
Time course of biochemical, physiological, and molecular responses to field-mimicked conditions of drought, salinity, and recovery in two maize lines. Drought and salinity stresses will have a high impact on future crop productivity, due to climate change and the increased competition for land, water, and energy. The response to drought (WS), salinity (SS), and the combined stresses (WS+SS) was monitored in two maize lines: the inbred B73 and an F1 commercial stress-tolerant hybrid. A protocol mimicking field progressive stress conditions was developed and its effect on plant growth analyzed at different time points. The results indicated that the stresses limited growth in the hybrid and arrested it in the inbred line. In SS, the two genotypes had different ion accumulation and translocation capacity, particularly for Na+ and Cl−. Moreover, the hybrid perceived the stress, reduced all the analyzed physiological parameters, and kept them reduced until the recovery. B73 decreased all physiological parameters more gradually, being affected mainly by SS. Both lines recovered better from WS than the other stresses. Molecular analysis revealed a diverse modulation of some stress markers in the two genotypes, reflecting their different response to stresses. Combining biochemical and physiological data with expression analyses yielded insight into the mechanisms regulating the different stress tolerance of the two lines.
Optimal design of the mechanical properties of bamboo plywood form based on response surface model. In order to realize the mechanical properties optimization of bamboo plywood form, the quadratic response surface model of process parameter and mechanical properties, i. e. modulus of rupture (MOR) and modulus of elasticity (MOE) in both parallel and perpendicular directions, of bamboo plywood form was set up using orthogonal experiment and numerical simulation. Based on the response surface model, multi-objective optimization of mechanical properties of bamboo plywood form was carried out by the Pareto genetic algorithm, and 10 Pareto solutions were obtained. Comparing the 10 Pareto solutions with the initial value mechanical properties, the results showed that the MOR values in parallel and perpendicular directions increased by 12.80% and 14.75%, respectively; while the MOE values increased by 14.11% and 8.59% respectively.
A Lattice Model for Influenza Spreading. We construct a stochastic SIR model for influenza spreading on a D-dimensional lattice, which represents the dynamic contact network of individuals. An age distributed population is placed on the lattice and moves on it. The displacement from a site to a nearest neighbor empty site, allows individuals to change the number and identities of their contacts. The dynamics on the lattice is governed by an attractive interaction between individuals belonging to the same age-class. The parameters, which regulate the pattern dynamics, are fixed fitting the data on the age-dependent daily contact numbers, furnished by the Polymod survey. A simple SIR transmission model with a nearest neighbors interaction and some very basic adaptive mobility restrictions complete the model. The model is validated against the age-distributed Italian epidemiological data for the influenza A(H1N1) during the 2009/2010 season, with sensible predictions for the epidemiological parameters. For an appropriate topology of the lattice, we find that, whenever the accordance between the contact patterns of the model and the Polymod data is satisfactory, there is a good agreement between the numerical and the experimental epidemiological data. This result shows how rich is the information encoded in the average contact patterns of individuals, with respect to the analysis of the epidemic spreading of an infectious disease.
Programmes of activity of the Experimental Station for Silk for the year 1998. The activities of the Italian Experimental Station for Silk (Stazione Sperimentale per la Seta) fall into the categories of research; analysis, control and technical consultation; documentation, information and divulgation; standardization; and education. The research topics for 1998 were superficial treatments of textile materials; the recovery and re-use of waste materials from silk processing; photochemical advanced oxidation processes for the treatment of dyeing and printing waste; quality standards for silk fabrics from the Como region; and the genetics of the silk worm (Bombyx mori): fundamental aspects and applications to sericulture. Activities in the other categories are also noted.
Registration of five short-season Stiff Stalk (SS) EarlyGEM maize germplasms. In 2000, the North Dakota (ND) maize (Zea mays L.) breeding project initiated the long-term EarlyGEM program to increase the genetic diversity of northern US maize hybrids. The goal was to expand Germplasm Enhancement Maize (GEM) efforts. NDEarlyGEM3 (Reg. No. GP-594, PI 675374), NDEarlyGEM10 (Reg. No. GP-595, PI 675377), NDEarlyGEM21a (Reg. No. GP-596, PI 675378), NDEarlyGEM21b (Reg. No. GP- 597, PI 675379), and NDEarlyGEM21c (Reg. No. GP-598, PI 675380) are new maize populations carrying diverse genetics for short-season environments. These populations belong to the Stiff Stalk (SS) heterotic group as per their original GEM pedigree validated by combining ability data. A modified pedigree selection program including elite GEM and ND lines was utilized to move GEM germplasm northward and westward. Early-and lategeneration hybrid trials, including EarlyGEM BC1-derived lines were conducted from 2006 to 2010. The bulk-entry method allowed top progenies not only to be recombined to create new populations but also to initiate the development of new elite lines and hybrids. New EarlyGEM populations provide a unique option to expand the gene pool of breeding programs. Four new EarlyGEM lines (ND2014, ND2015, ND2016, and ND2035) derived from released NDEarlyGEM SS populations have recently been released to industry exclusively after being tested across 51 to 64 northern US environments. In this paper, however, only EarlyGEM populations are registered due to the fact that elite EarlyGEM inbred lines have intellectual property exclusive restrictions set up by the North Dakota State University Research Foundation. Adaptation and improvement programs carrying unique and diverse germplasm will be essential in the development of new cultivars tolerant to climate changes.
Rainbow connectivity using a rank genetic algorithm: Moore cages with girth six. A rainbow t-coloring of a t-connected graph G is an edge coloring such that for any two distinct vertices u and v of G there are at least t internally vertex-disjoint rainbow (u,v)-paths. In this work, we apply a Rank Genetic Algorithm to search for rainbow t-colorings of the family of Moore cages with girth six (t;6)-cages. We found that an upper bound in the number of colors needed to produce a rainbow 4-coloring of a (4;6)-cage is 7, improving the one currently known, which is 13. The computation of the minimum number of colors of a rainbow coloring is known to be NP-Hard and the Rank Genetic Algorithm showed good behavior finding rainbow t-colorings with a small number of colors.
Molecular phylogeny and surface morphology of marine archigregarines (Apicomplexa), selenidium spp., filipodium phascolosomae n. sp., and platyproteum n. g. and comb. from North-Eastern Pacific peanut worms (Sipuncula). The trophozoites of two novel archigregarines, Selenidium pisinnus n. sp. and Filipodium phascolosomae n. sp., were described from the sipunculid Phascolosoma agassizii. The trophozoites of S. pisinnus n. sp. were relatively small (64-100 μm long and 9-25 μm wide), had rounded ends, and had about 21 epicytic folds per side. The trophozoites of F. phascolosomae n. sp. were highly irregular in shape and possessed hair-like surface projections. The trophozoites of this species were 85-142 μm long and 40-72 μm wide and possessed a distinct longitudinal ridge that extended from the mucron to the posterior end of the cell. In addition to the small subunit (SSU) rDNA sequences of these two species, we also characterized the surface morphology and SSU rDNA sequence of Selenidium orientale, isolated from the sipunculid Themiste pyroides. Molecular phylogenetic analyses demonstrated that S. pisinnus n. sp. and S. orientale formed a strongly supported clade within other Selenidium and archigregarine-like environmental sequences. Filipodium phascolosomae n. sp. formed the nearest sister lineage to the dynamic, tape-like gregarine Selenidium vivax. Overall, these data enabled us to reassess the molecular systematics of archigregarines within sipunculid hosts and make the following revisions: (1) Filipodium was transferred from the Lecudinidae (eugregarines) to the Selenidiidae (archigregarines), and (2) Platyproteum n. g. was established for Platyproteum vivax n. comb. (ex. S. vivax) in order to account for the highly divergent morphological features and better resolved phylogenetic position of this lineage.
Population differentiation in floral characters of datura inoxia mill. Question: Is differentiation in single and correlated floral traits among populations of Datura inoxia the result of contrasting natural selection? Hypothesis: The pattern and structure of phenotypic variance-covariance matrices of putative adaptive traits differ from those produced by random processes. Population differentiation in quantitative floral traits (QST) of D. inoxia exceeds the magnitude of population differentiation in neutral characters (FST), supporting a selection-driven differentiation scenario. Organism: Datura inoxia Mill. (Solanaceae). Field sites: Six natural populations in Mexico (latitudinal range: 18°48N to 26°41N). Methods: Using different methods (Mantel and modified Mantel tests, jackknife MANOVA, Flury's method, and QST-FST of Whitlock and Guillaume), we contrasted the pattern of phenotypic variance-covariance matrices as well as the magnitude of population differentiation in seven quantitative floral traits, against population structure of D. inoxia in neutral loci (molecular markers). We also contrasted floral characters measures and integration indices with local inbreeding values (FIS) for each population to contrast selection mediated by pollinators and selection of selfing. Conclusions: Datura inoxia populations are genetically structured in both quantitative traits and neutral loci but population differentiation in four of seven floral traits is greater than expected by random differentiation. The strong correlations in characters related to attraction of pollinators and pollen deposition/removal are in agreement with a pattern expected for the adaptive evolution of funnel-shaped corollas in outcrossing species.
Mitochondrial cox3 and trnW-I sequence diversity of Sargassum muticum. The brown alga Sargassum muticum (Yendo) Fensholt, a component of the native algal flora of East Asia, is now one of the major macroalgal invaders of the coasts of North America and Europe. To investigate the genetic diversity of native populations, we analyzed mitochondrial cox3 and trnW-I from a total of 144 specimens of this species from Korea, Japan, as well as from North America, and Europe. A total of ten haplotypes were found in the concatenated cox3. +. trnW-I dataset: seven in western Korea, four in southern Korea, one each in eastern Korea and Jeju, one in Japan, and one each in Europe and North America. Haplotype 1 was common in Europe and North America, as well as in Korea. The number of private haplotypes, and haplotype and nucleotide diversities, were higher on the west coast of Korea than on the other coasts. No private haplotype was found in invaded areas. Thus, the west coast of Korea may be a native genetic diversity center.
Informed consent for research on stored blood and tissue samples: A survey of institutional review board practices. Numerous position papers have outlined informed consent recommendations for the collection, storage, and future use of biological samples; however, there currently is no consensus regarding what kinds of information should be included in consent forms. This study aimed to determine whether institutional review boards (IRBs) vary in their informed consent requirements for research on stored biological samples, and whether any variation observed could be correlated to factors such as volume of work, IRB members' familiarity with ethical issues in genetic research, and IRBs' use of either of two policy guidelines as resources. A brief survey was mailed to all IRB chairpersons on a mailing list obtained from the Office for Human Research Protections. Survey questions included whether consent forms for the collection of biological samples for future use address each of six provisions recommended in current guidelines and position statements, and whether IRBs used the Office for Protection from Research Risks' 1993 Protecting Human Research Subjects: Institutional Review Board Guidebook, chapter 5 (hereinafter IRB Guidebook) or the National Bioethics Advisory Commission's 1999 Research Involving Human Biological Materials: Ethical Issues and Policy Guidance, Volume 1 (hereinafter Report) in their deliberations. Despite a low response rate (22%, 427 respondents), results indicate that IRB practices vary substantially. The degree to which the provisions were included in consent forms was found to correlate positively with IRBs that review a greater volume of protocols annually, those that use the National Biothics Advisory Commission Report in their deliberations, and those that draw on both the Report and the IRB Guidebook.
Post-glacial biogeography of trembling aspen inferred from habitat models and genetic variance in quantitative traits. Using species distribution models and information on genetic structure and within-population variance observed in a series of common garden trials, we reconstructed a historical biogeography of trembling aspen in North America. We used an ensemble classifier modelling approach (RandomForest) to reconstruct palaeoclimatic habitat for the periods 21,000, 14,000, 11,000 and 6,000 years before present. Genetic structure and diversity in quantitative traits was evaluated in common garden trials with 43 aspen collections ranging from Minnesota to northern British Columbia. Our main goals were to examine potential recolonisation routes for aspen from southwestern, eastern and Beringian glacial refugia. We further examined if any refugium had stable habitat conditions where aspen clones may have survived multiple glaciations. Our palaeoclimatic habitat reconstructions indicate that aspen may have recolonised boreal Canada and Alaska from refugia in the eastern United States, with separate southwestern refugia for the Rocky Mountain regions. This is further supported by a southeast to northwest gradient of decreasing genetic variance in quantitative traits, a likely result of repeated founder effects. Stable habitat where aspen clones may have survived multiple glaciations was predicted in Mexico and the eastern United States, but not in the west where some of the largest aspen clones have been documented.
Hepatitis E virus detected from Chinese laboratory ferrets and farmed mink. A novel genotype of hepatitis E virus (HEV) has been discovered in ferrets and mink worldwide. However, the situation in China is unknown. Diverse HEV RNA belonging to HEV genotype C2 was detected in this study from 17.5% (18/103) of the laboratory ferrets and 1.9% (2/107) of farmed mink in China. Phylogenetic analysis showed that the ferret HEV strains clustered into three groups with known strains detected from the United States and the Netherlands. Attempted transmission of ferret HEV to two rabbits was not successful. This study confirmed that the C2 genotype of HEV is circulating in China and succeeded in infecting laboratory ferrets with this genotype of HEV. Further studies are required to determine whether the C2 genotype of HEV can infect humans.
Glycerol Dehydratases: Biochemical Structures, Catalytic Mechanisms, and Industrial Applications in 1,3-Propanediol Production by Naturally Occurring and Genetically Engineered Bacterial Strains. To date, two types of glycerol dehydratases have been reported: coenzyme B12-dependent and coenzyme B12-independent glycerol dehydratases. The three-dimensional structure of the former is a dimer of αβγ heterotrimer, while that of the latter is a homodimer. Their mechanisms of reaction are typically enzymatic radical catalysis. Functional radical in both the glycerol dehydratases is the adenosyl radical. However, the adenosyl radical in the former originates from coenzyme B12 by homolytic cleavage, and that in the latter from S-adenosyl-methionine. Until some years ago, Clostridium butyricum VPI 1718 was the only microorganism known to possess B12-independent glycerol dehydratase, but since then, several other bacteria with this unique capability have been identified. This article focuses on the glycerol dehydratases and on 1,3-propanediol production from glycerol by naturally occurring and genetically engineered bacterial strains containing glycerol dehydratase.
Junior doctor perceptions of education and feedback on ward rounds. Aim: The literature suggests that feedback is wanted and needed in clinical medicine and specifically on ward rounds, yet it is often lacking. This study aimed to examine junior doctor perceptions of education and feedback on ward rounds in one clinical department at a tertiary paediatric hospital and the key influences on these perceptions. Methods: Six semi-structured focus groups were conducted over a period of 9 months comprising of 20 participants (post-graduate year 1–5) in a general medical department of a tertiary paediatric hospital. Qualitative analysis was performed on focus group transcripts using an inductive approach and codes and themes were generated in an iterative fashion with checking of themes between two researchers. Results: Feedback experiences were largely positive compared to previous rotations. Three overarching themes were identified which influenced trainee perceptions of education and feedback on ward rounds. These were: consultant influences (e.g. educational engagement), trainee influences (e.g. active seeking of feedback), and structural factors (e.g. organisational constraints). Conclusions: Despite positive feedback experiences, the need to improve feedback for our junior doctors is clear, but how to do this remains challenging when navigating work-learning tensions. The notion of the educational alliance between the consultant and trainee is a potential useful solution, but it requires deliberate effort and dedicated time to establish given our increasingly complex and busy clinical environments.
Levator claviculae: A case report and review of the literature. The levator claviculae is an uncommon anatomical variant found in the posterior cervical triangle. In this report we present a 78-year-old man with this muscular variation, which was found during gross anatomical dissection. While sites of insertion and origin have been variable, in the present case the muscle originated from the left transverse processes of C3 and C4, and inserted onto the lateral third of the ipsilateral clavicle. Clinical considerations of this variant anatomy are of interest, as they may present in patients as a supraclavicular mass and may also mimic pathology on cross-sectional imaging.
Providing timely quality care after-hours: Perceptions of a hospital model of care. Background: Nurses working night shift are key-players in the acute care team, however, their work environment has been characterised by suboptimal leadership, communication inadequacies, limited resources, and a lack of adequate support. Aim: The aim of this study was to investigate nurses’ perceptions of the Hospital at Night Team, a nursing model of care implemented to provide timely quality nursing care after-hours. Methods: The study used a descriptive design. Five focus groups were conducted, with a total of 34 nurses from 14 wards across a 600+ bed tertiary referral teaching hospital in Melbourne, Australia, one year after the Hospital at Night Team implementation. Focus group interviews were transcribed and subjected to thematic analysis. Findings: Themes arising were: changing role perceptions as the Hospital at Night Team was embedded into the organisation; the impact of technology on workflow and responsiveness; refinement of services occurring over time with feedback and evaluation; and facilitating collaboration and learning across disciplines. Discussion: The Hospital at Night Team role evolved to offer more support for specialised procedures as well as a large amount of direct care. The services were perceived to have been refined over time, responding to feedback and evaluation of the service. Conclusions: The Hospital at Night Team nursing model of care provides flexibility, support, collaboration and shared learning across wards. Further research should investigate the effect of the Hospital at Night Team nursing model of care on patient outcomes.
Altitudinal genetic variation among Pinus pseudostrobus populations from michoacán, México. Two location shadehouse test results. Pinus pseudostrobus Lindl. is the forest species most important economically in the state of Michoacán, at central-west México. We investigated genetic variation among P. pseudostrobus populations along an altitudinal gradient in the native indian community of Nuevo San Juan Parangaricutiro, Michoacán, México. Cones were collected from eight populations at 100 m of altitudinal intervals between 2200 m and 2900 m. Seedlings were grown for approximately two years in two shadehouse environments at Morelia, Michoacán, México and at Moscow, Idaho, USA. Total height was periodically measured during the second growing season to estimate a series of growth indexes for both locations, and dry weights were obtained only for the Morelia test. For the Moscow test there were significant differences (P < 0.05) among populations for cessation of growth, duration of the growth period, and final height. For the Morelia tests there were differences among populations for foliage, shoot and total dry weight (P < 0.025), and significant differences for stem dry weight at P = 0.055 level. There was a strong altitudinal cline for dry weight variables, with seedlings originated from populations from the lowest altitudes having more biomass (r2 = 0.80, P = 0.003). Populations separated altitudinally by about 295 m are likely to be genetically different. We suggest delineation of three altitudinal seed zones (Zone I: 2100 m to 2400 m; Zone II: 2400 m to 2700 m; Zone III: 2700 m to 3000 m), that can be translated into climatic zones delimited according to mean annual temperatures or by degree days > 5 °C. To accommodate climate change we suggest implementing assisted migration programs by transferring populations 300 m upwards to maintain adaptiveness of populations for future climates.
Antibacterial, Antioxidant and DNA Cleavage Activity Evaluation of Substituted Phenylureido Sulfaguanidine and Sulfamethazine Derivatives. A series of six N-carbamimidoyl-4-(3-substituted phenylureido) benzenesulfonamides (SG1-SG6) and six N-(4,6-dimethylpyrimidin-2-yl)-4-(3-substituted phenylureido) benzenesulfonamides (SM1-SM6) were successfully re-synthesized to determine their antibacterial, antioxidant, and DNA cleavage activities. In general, all compounds showed moderate to good activity against Gram-positive strains (S. aureus and E. faecalis) and Gram-negative strains (P. aeruginosa and E. coli). More specifically, compound SM6 showed great potency against all the tested bacterial strains. One compound (SM5) among the series tested, showed great potency against P. aeruginosa strain (minimal inhibitory concentration, MIC = 7.8 μg/mL), which was comparable with MICs of the standard drugs ampicillin and ceftriaxon (3.9 and 15.6 μg/mL, respectively). On the other hand, a weak antioxidant activity was observed using DPPH free radical scavenging assay. Taken together, several compounds from the current series might be interesting lead derivatives to develop more potent compounds against the test bacterial strains.
Early evaluation of popcorn hybrids for vegetative use efficiency of nitrogen and phosphorus and secondary traits. The vegetative use efficiency of nutrients by popcorn genotypes is poorly characterized. Thus, the objectives of the present study were to (i) evaluate the vegetative use efficiency of nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) and secondary traits in commercial popcorn hybrids, and (ii) investigate the relative importance of root traits for the vegetative use efficiency of these nutrients in popcorn. Five popcorn hybrids were assessed in the vegetative stage V6 (six fully expanded leaves) in two distinct experiments with contrasting N and P levels at greenhouse. The hybrids were evaluated regarding the vegetative use efficiency (VUE) of N or P and the following secondary traits: daily growth (DG), shoot (SDW) and root dry weight (RDW), root-to-shoot ratio (RSR), total length (TRL), surface area (RSA), and root volume (RV). Significant differences between the hybrids were observed for all traits in both experiments. The hybrid x nutrient interaction was also significant for UE in both experiments, and the hybrids had different UEs under each nutrient level individually. The values for shoot traits decreased from high to low N, while values for root traits increased from high to low P. Hybrids P802 and AP4502 were notable due to their high vegetative N use efficiency under high and low N, respectively, and hybrids P622 and AP2501 were the most efficient in P use under high and low P, respectively. Regardless of the experiment and the nutrient level, hybrid P625 was consistently regarded as inefficient in vegetative nutrient use. The hybrids that were efficient in vegetative nutrient use had greater root trait values than the inefficient hybrids, regardless of the experiment, the nutrient level and the root class.
Commercial developments in microalgal biotechnology. A number of important advances have occurred in microalgal biotechnology in recent years that are slowly moving the field into new areas. New products are being developed for use in the mass commercial markets as opposed to the 'health food' markets. These include algal-derived long-chained polyunsaturated fatty acids, mainly docosahexaenoic acid, for use as supplements in human nutrition and animals. Large-scale production of algal fatty acids is possible through the use of heterotrophic algae and the adaptation of classical fermentation systems providing consistent biomass under highly controlled conditions that result in a very high quality product. New products have also been developed for use in the development of pharmaceutical and research products. These include stable-isotope biochemicals produced by algae in closed-system photobioreactors and extremely bright fluorescent pigments. Cryopreservation has also had a tremendous impact on the ability of strains to be maintained for long periods of time at low cost and maintenance while preserving genetic stability.
Proteomic analysis of two malting barleys (Hordeum vulgare L.) and their impact on wort quality. Malted barley contributes directly to wort quality. Wort prepared with malt M1 had a higher free amino nitrogen content, whereas wort prepared with malt M2 had a higher diastatic power. The proteome analysis (pI 3–10) in 2D-PAGE gels showed significant differences, with M1 generating 246 ± 9.8 spots and M2 229 ± 9.8 spots. M1 had more hydrolytic enzymes, in particular an esterase with a size of 43.7 kDa and a pI of 9.4, whereas M2 had more proteins involved in stress tolerance and carbohydrate metabolism, particularly a β-glucosidase with a size of 58.7 kDa and a pI of 7.7, which coincided with its higher diastatic power. The biological activity of M1 showed a band at ca. 150 kDa with high proteolytic activity and another band at 27 kDa with amylase activity. This study is the first report of amylase activity of small molecular size in malts.
Isolation, characterisation and detection of plasmids from chromium and copper resistant bacterial strains of textile effluents. Chromium resistant Bacillus subtilis NCBT-012, 013 strains and copper resistant Pseudomonas fluorescens NCBT-036, 037, 038 indicator bacterial strains were isolated from textile effluents and characterised. These indicator bacterial strains have shown multiple metal as well as antibiotic resistance characters. FTIR spectroscopic analysis of unpolluted control and the strains isolated from textile effluent B. subtilis and P. fluorescens revealed alteration in the absorption frequencies of main functional carbonyl, carboxyl, amino and hydroxyl groups between them. The effluent bacterial strains B. subtilis (NCBT-012) carried a plasmid DNA having a molecular weight of 14.86 kb and P. fluorescens (NCBT-036) showed a plasmid DNA with molecular weight of 23 kb suggesting that the plasmid genes detected is responsible for chromium and copper resistant characters of these bacterial strains. Further these isolates can be exploited for safe biodegradation of textile effluents.
Long-term persistence in a changing climate: DNA analysis suggests very old ages of clones of alpine Carex curvula. Carex curvula is a very slow-growing rhizomatous sedge that forms extensive stands in the European alpine belt. The recruitment of sexual progeny is extremely rare and propagation occurs predominantly through clonal growth. The randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) technique was used to analyse clonal structure in a small patch (2.0x0.4 m sampling transect plus some additional samples) of a high-alpine population of the species. Amplification of the DNA of 116 tiller samples from the patch with eight ten-base primers yielded a total of 95 bands, of which 73 were polymorphic. Based on the RAPD amplification profiles a total of 15 multilocus genotypes (putative clones) were identified. Due to the high number of polymorphic loci the number of genetic markers delineating individual clones was high (range: 16-39 markers) which suggests that our estimates of clonal diversity are precise. More than half of the sampled tillers were identified as belonging to a single clone which formed a relatively homogeneous disc intermingling with other clones only at its margin. Based on the maximum diameter of this large clone of more than 7000 tillers and estimates of annual expansion growth of rhizomes (0.4 mm year-1), the age of the clone was calculated to be around 2000 years. This demonstrates that clones of C. curvula may persist on a single spot over long periods with quite diverse alpine climates ranging from rather mild periods in the Middle Ages to cool periods during the so called "little ice age" in the last century. Our results suggest caution with plant migration scenarios based on shifting isotherms where late-successional clonal species, which dominate the alpine vegetation all over the world, are concerned.
Improving the bin packing heuristic through grammatical evolution based on swarm intelligence. In recent years Grammatical Evolution (GE) has been used as a representation of Genetic Programming (GP) which has been applied to many optimization problems such as symbolic regression, classification, Boolean functions, constructed problems, and algorithmic problems.GE can use a diversity of searching strategies including SwarmIntelligence (SI). Particle SwarmOptimisation (PSO) is an algorithm of SI that has two main problems: premature convergence and poor diversity. Particle Evolutionary Swarm Optimization (PESO) is a recent and novel algorithm which is also part of SI. PESO uses two perturbations to avoid PSO's problems. In this paper we propose using PESO and PSO in the frame of GE as strategies to generate heuristics that solve the Bin Packing Problem (BPP); it is possible however to apply this methodology to other kinds of problems using another Grammar designed for that problem. A comparison between PESO, PSO, and BPP's heuristics is performed through the nonparametric Friedman test. The main contribution of this paper is proposing a Grammar to generate online and offline heuristics depending on the test instance trying to improve the heuristics generated by other grammars and humans; it also proposes a way to implement different algorithms as search strategies in GE like PESO to obtain better results than those obtained by PSO.
CisML: An XML-based format for sequence motif detection software. Summary: CisML is an XML-based format for sequence motif detection software. This proposed standard is applicable to many types of sequence motif detection programs. It is intended to facilitate the integration of data and the comparison of results from different software packages, and to simplify the development of downstream tools. XSL stylesheets are provided for easy generation of text, html and graphical reports from CisML-formatted data.
Distribution and Prevalence of Myxobolus cerebralis in Postfire Areas of Plumas National Forest: Utility of Environmental DNA Sampling. Myxobolus cerebralis is a myxozoan parasite and the etiological agent of whirling disease in salmonids. The parasite's life cycle involves waterborne spores and requires both a salmonid fish and the benthic freshwater oligochaete worm Tubifex tubifex (Oligochaeta: Tubificidae). Wildfires can lead to the erosion of fine sediments into stream channels and have been implicated as promoting environmental conditions that are suitable for the survival and success of T. tubifex, whose presence in turn can affect the prevalence of M. cerebralis. Analysis of environmental DNA (eDNA) has the potential to be a powerful tool for evaluating the presence of microorganisms, for which direct observation is impossible. We investigated the presence of M. cerebraliseDNA in river water and river sediment samples collected from areas affected by recent fire activity in Plumas National Forest, California. We compared eDNA loads in the environment to M. cerebralis infection in T. tubifex and sentinel-exposed Rainbow Trout Oncorhynchus mykiss and the presence of T. tubifex lineages in the same environment. For the latter, we developed a multiplex quantitative PCR assay for detection of T. tubifex lineages I, III, and V. Lineage IIIT. tubifex and M. cerebralis (eDNA as well as DNA extracted from fish and worm tissues) were detected only in samples obtained from areas affected by the Moonlight wildfire. The association between M. cerebralis infection in sentinel-exposed fish and eDNA detection in environmental samples only approached significance at a P-value of 0.056. However, given the difference in relative effort between the two sampling methods (host versus nonhost environment), our data suggest that eDNA sampling of water and substrate is a promising approach for surveillance of myxozoan fish parasites.
Efficient syntheses of artificial nucleases containing mono-, di- and tri-[12]aneN3 ligating units through click chemistry. Mono-, di-, and tri-nucleating [12]aneN3 ligands 3-5 have been efficiently prepared through the copper-mediated click reactions between propargyl modified [12]aneN3 2 and mono-, bis-, and tri-azido compounds. Their corresponding zinc(II) and copper(II) complexes showed excellent catalytic activity and strong synergetic effects in the cleavage of RNA model phosphate diester.
Genetic Simulation Resources and the GSR Certification Program. With recent explosion in the diversity and volume of genetic data generated, an increasing number of genetic simulation programs have been developed to aid the development of statistical methods for the analysis of such data in all genetic-related disciplines (Escalona , 2016; Hoban , 2012; Peng , 2015; Ritchie and Bush, 2010). Despite the recognized importance of genetic simulation tools, it is often difficult to discover and select the right simulation tool for a particular study due to differences in the type of genetic data of interest, simulation methods, features, terminologies and assumptions (Mechanic , 2012), and lack of external evaluations of the usability and maintenance status of published simulators. To address these issues, we want to encourage use of the Genetic Simulation Resources (GSR) online catalog and search tool () and participation in the GSR Certification Program.
Studies on the Starches of Barley Genotypes: The Waxy Starch. Two varieties of waxy barley originating from Japan, Sumiremochi and Mochimugi, have been characterized in detail for the first time. These two glutinous starches were found to be essentially identical. Both contained less than 0.5% of amylose, had a β‐amylolysis limit of 53% conversion into maltose, and an average length of unit‐chain of about 23 glucose units. The weight average molecular weight was 300 × 106. These properties are characteristic of amylopectin. The iodine binding capacity of six other varieties of Japanese waxy barley has been measured and apparent amylose contents of 3 to 13% were obtained. Possible reasons for the presence of this amount of amylose are discussed.
Effects of bacteriophage on inhibition and removal of mixed biofilm of enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli O157:H7 and O91:H-. This study describes the characterization of bacteriophage FP43, active against pathogenic and non-pathogenic strains of Escherichia coli, and its ability to inhibit and remove a mixed biofilm of enterohemorrhagic E. coli O157:H7 and O91:H-. Phage FP43 is a member of the Myoviridae family, having a dsDNA genome consisting of 169,248 bp with good stability. It has a short latent period and large burst size. Phage FP43 decreased the formation of biofilm, comprising E. coli O157:H7 and O91:H-, by 82.4% at 30 °C. After incubation for 6 h with FP43, viable counts of E. coli O157:H7 and total cells in the biofilm were reduced by 2.76 and 2.85 log, respectively. In planktonic cells, viable E. coli O157:H7 and total counts decreased by 3.44 and 3.62 log, respectively, after incubation with the phage for 4 h. Moreover, more than 60% of an established, mixed biofilm was removed after a 6 h exposure to the phage, in which E. coli O157:H7 and total viable counts decreased by 2.07 and 1.93 log, respectively. These results suggest that bacteriophage FP43 has broad host range against both pathogenic and non-pathogenic E. coli, and potential to reduce viable counts of both enterohemorrhagic E. coli O157:H7 and E. coli O91 in mixed-strain biofilm.
Modeling the optical properties of transparent and absorbing dielectrics by means of symbolic regression. In this contribution we explore the possibilities and limitations of symbolic regression as an alternative to the approaches currently used to characterize the dispersive behavior of a given material. To this end, we make use of genetic programming to retrieve, from either ellipsometric or spectral data, closed-form expressions that model the optical properties of the materials studied. In a first stage we consider transparent dielectrics for our numerical experiments. Next we increase the complexity of the problem and consider absorbing dielectrics, which not only require the use of complex functions to model their dielectric function, but also imply a supplementary constraint imposed by the verification of the causality principle.
Tracking Cryptosporidium parvum by sequence analysis of small double-stranded RNA. We sequenced a 173-nucleotide fragment of the small double-stranded viruslike RNA of Cryptosporidium parvum isolates from 23 calves and 38 humans. Sequence diversity was detected at 17 sites. Isolates from the same outbreak had identical double-stranded RNA sequences, suggesting that this technique may be useful for tracking Cryptosporidium infection sources.
Chiral discrimination of α-amino acids by DNA tetranucleotides under electrospray ionization conditions. A set of DNA tetranucleotides, which are 3′- or 5′-end extended versions of GCA, was used as chiral selectors for the discrimination of enantiomers of α-amino acids. The [X+Y-2H]2- ions of the 1:1 complexes were generated by electrospraying a mixture of tetranucleotide (X) and amino acid (Y) solution. Chiral discrimination was achieved by studying the collision-induced dissociation spectra of the [X+Y-2H]2- ion and the ratio of relative abundance of precursor ion to that of the product ion was used to measure the extent of discrimination. Among the tetranucleotides used, GCAA and GGCA exhibited better discrimination, in which GCAA showed D-selectivity and GGCA showed L-selectivity for the studied amino acids. In addition, binding constants were measured for the 1:1 complexes of phenylalanine enantiomers with GCAA and GGCA.
Comparative analysis of performance and stability among composite cross populations, variety mixtures and pure lines of winter wheat in organic and conventional cropping systems. This study investigated the effects of increased genetic diversity in winter wheat (Triticum aestivum L.), either from hybridization across genotypes or from physical mixing of lines, on grain yield, grain quality, and yield stability in different cropping environments. Sets of pure lines (no diversity), chosen for high yielding ability or high quality, were compared with line mixtures (intermediate level of diversity), and lines crossed with each other in composite cross populations (CCPn, high diversity). Additional populations containing male sterility genes (CCPms) to increase outcrossing rates were also tested. Grain yield, grain protein content, and protein yield were measured at four sites (two organically-managed and two conventionally-managed) over three years, using seed harvested locally in each preceding year. CCPn and mixtures out-yielded the mean of the parents by 2.4% and 3.6%, respectively. These yield differences were consistent across genetic backgrounds but partly inconsistent across cropping environments and years. Yield stability measured by environmental variance was higher in CCPn and CCPms than the mean of the parents. An index of yield reliability tended to be higher in CCPn, CCPms and mixtures than the mean of the parents. Lin and Binns' superiority values of yield and protein yield were consistently and significantly lower (i.e. better) in the CCPs than in the mean of the parents, but not different between CCPs and mixtures. However, CCPs showed greater early ground cover and plant height than mixtures. When compared with the (locally non-predictable) best-yielding pure line, CCPs and mixtures exhibited lower mean yield and somewhat lower yield reliability but comparable superiority values. Thus, establishing CCPs from smaller sets of high-performing parent lines might optimize their yielding ability. On the whole, the results demonstrate that using increased within-crop genetic diversity can produce wheat crops with improved yield stability and good yield reliability across variable and unpredictable cropping environments.
A review of three cases of Clostridium aldenense bacteremia. Three cases of Clostridium aldenense bacteremia are reported. C. aldenense is also associated with intra-abdominal infections and closely resembles Clostridium clostridioforme and therefore may be misidentified C aldenense may be a more frequent pathogen than appreciated and is generally fluoroquinolone resistant.
Access to Core Facilities and Other Research Resources Provided by the Clinical and Translational Science Awards. Principal investigators who received Clinical and Translational Science Awards created academic homes for biomedical research. They developed program-supported websites to offer coordinated access to a range of core facilities and other research resources. Visitors to the 60 websites will find at least 170 generic services, which this review has categorized in the following seven areas: (1) core facilities, (2) biomedical informatics, (3) funding, (4) regulatory knowledge and support, (5) biostatistics, epidemiology, research design, and ethics, (6) participant and clinical interaction resources, and (7) community engagement. In addition, many websites facilitate access to resources with search engines, navigators, studios, project development teams, collaboration tools, communication systems, and teaching tools. Each of these websites may be accessed from a single site. The ability to access the research resources from 60 of the nation's academic health centers presents a novel opportunity for investigators engaged in clinical and translational research.
Synthesis and Fermentation Properties of Novel Galacto-Oligosaccharides by β-Galactosidases from Bifidobacterium Species. β-Galactosidase enzymes were extracted from pure cultures of Bifidobacterium angulatum, B. bifidum BB-12, B. adolescentis ANB-7, B. infantis DSM-20088, and B. pseudolongum DSM-20099 and used in glycosyl transfer reactions to synthesize oligosaccharides from lactose. At a lactose concentration of 30% (wt/wt) oligosaccharide yields of 24.7 to 47.6% occurred within 7 h. Examination of the products by thin-layer chromatography and methylation analysis revealed distinct product derived spectra from each enzyme. These were found to be different to that of Oligomate 55, a commercial prebiotic galacto-oligosaccharide. Fermentation testing of the oligosaccharides showed an increase in growth rate, compared to Oligomate 55, with products derived from B. angulatum, B. bifidum, B. infantis, and B. pseudolongum. However B. adolescentis had a lower growth rates on its oligosaccharide compared with Oligomate 55. Mixed culture testing of the B. bifidum BS-4 oligosaccharide showed that the overall prebiotic effect was equivalent to that of Oligomate 55.
Growth and longevity in freshwater mussels: Evolutionary and conservation implications. The amount of energy allocated to growth versus other functions is a fundamental feature of an organism's life history. Constraints on energy availability result in characteristic trade-offs among life-history traits and reflect strategies by which organisms adapt to their environments. Freshwater mussels are a diverse and imperiled component of aquatic ecosystems but little is known about their growth and longevity. Generalized depictions of freshwater mussels as 'long-lived and slow-growing' may give an unrealistically narrow view of life-history diversity which is incongruent with the taxonomic diversity of the group and can result in development of inappropriate conservation strategies. We investigated relationships among growth, longevity, and size in 57 species and 146 populations of freshwater mussels using original data and literature sources. In contrast to generalized depictions, longevity spanned nearly two orders of magnitude, ranging from 4 to 190 years, and the von Bertalanffy growth constant, K, spanned a similar range (0.02-1.01). Median longevity and K differed among phylogenetic groups but groups overlapped widely in these traits. Longevity, K, and size also varied among populations; in some cases, longevity and K differed between populations by a factor of two or more. Growth differed between sexes in some species and males typically reached larger sizes than females. In addition, a population of Quadrula asperata exhibited two distinctly different growth trajectories. Most individuals in this population had a low-to-moderate value of K (0.15) and intermediate longevity (27 years) but other individuals showed extremely slow growth (K = 0.05) and reached advanced ages (72 years). Overall, longevity was related negatively to the growth rate, K, and K explained a high percentage of variation in longevity. By contrast, size and relative shell mass (g mm-1 shell length) explained little variation in longevity. These patterns remained when data were corrected for phylogenetic relationships among species. Path analysis supported the conclusion that K was the most important factor influencing longevity both directly and indirectly through its effect on shell mass. The great variability in age and growth among and within species shows that allocation to growth is highly plastic in freshwater mussels. The strong negative relationship between growth and longevity suggests this is an important trade-off describing widely divergent life-history strategies. Although life-history strategies may be constrained somewhat by phylogeny, plasticity in growth among populations indicates that growth characteristics cannot be generalized within a species and management and conservation efforts should be based on data specific to a population of interest. © Published 2010. This article is a US Government work and is in the public domain in the USA.
Mapping QTLs for drought tolerance in an F2: 3 population from an inter-specific cross between Gossypium tomentosum and Gossypium hirsutum. Cotton is one of the most important natural fiber crops in the world. Its growth and yield is greatly limited by drought. A quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis was therefore conducted to investigate the genetic basis of drought tolerance in cotton (Gossypium spp) using 188 F2: 3 lines developed from an inter-specific cross between a wild cotton species, G. tomentosum, and an upland cotton, G. hirsutum (CRI-12). A genetic map was constructed using 1295 simple sequence repeat markers, which amplified 1342 loci, distributed on 26 chromosomes, covering 3328.24 cM. A field experiment was conducted in two consecutive years (2014 and 2015) and 11 morphological and physiological traits were recorded under water-limited (W1)/well-watered (W2) regimes at three growth stages (bud, flowering, and full boll). The traits measured included chlorophyll content, plant height, leaf area, leaf number, leaf fresh weight, leaf dry weight, boll weight, number of bolls per plant, and the number of fruiting branches. Sixty-seven and 35 QTLs were found under the W1 and W2 conditions, respectively. Of these, the majority exhibited partial dominance or over-dominance genetic effects for increasing the trait values. Four consistent QTLs were found under the W1 treatment on chromosomes 5, 8, 9, and 16, whereas no consistent QTL was found in W2. Thirteen QTL clusters were also identified on nine chromosomes (2, 3, 5, 6, 9, 14, 15, 16, and 21). These results will help to elucidate the genetic basis of drought tolerance in cotton.
Graph traversals, genes and matroids: An efficient case of the travelling salesman problem. In this paper we consider graph traversal problems (Euler and Travelling Salesman traversals) that arise from a particular technology for DNA sequencing - sequencing by hybridization (SBH). We first explain the connection of the graph problems to SBH and then focus on the traversal problems. We describe a practical polynomial time solution to the Travelling Salesman Problem in a rich class of directed graphs (including edge weighted binary de Bruijn graphs), and provide bounded-error approximation algorithms for the maximum weight TSP in a superset of those directed graphs. We also establish the existence of a matroid structure defined on the set of Euler and Hamilton paths in the restricted class of graphs. 1998 Published by  B.V.
Phylogeography of island canary (Serinus canaria) populations. Island canaries (Serinus canaria) are characterised as a species living exclusively on North Atlantic islands, mainly on the Azores, Madeira and Canary Islands. Although they are very common in their habitats, their behaviour and breeding system has only recently been studied systematically. To advance the understanding of their ecology and to see if the rather isolated archipelagos are already promoting a genetic differentiation, we investigated their phylogeographic relationship as revealed by mtDNA sequences of the cytochrome b gene and investigated whether this measure corresponds to morphological characteristics within the islands. Genetic distances were very low throughout the distribution range of the species. Although the variation of genetic distances within the population of Pico (Azores) was larger than that on Madeira and Canary Islands, the genetic distances between island populations were very low throughout which prevented a clear phylogeographic differentiation. Moreover, morphological measurements did not reveal a consistent pattern to reliably separate the populations, although the measures of beak length and body weight revealed a clear island-specific differentiation. These data lead to the assumption that the colonisation of the Atlantic islands by the canaries occurred very recently, while there is no persisting gene flow between the populations. © Dt. Ornithologen-Gesellschaft e.V. 2005.
A graphical analysis method to estimate blood-to-tissue transfer constants for tracers with labeled metabolites. The Patlak graphical analysis technique is a popular tool for estimating blood-to-tissue transfer constants from multiple-time uptake data. Our objective was to extend this technique to tracers with labeled metabolites, the presence of which can cause errors in the standard Patlak analysis. Methods: Based on previously described formulations, we generalized the graphical technique for use under specific conditions. To test the extended graphical approach, we applied the method to both simulated and patient data using a preliminary compartmental model for the PET tumor proliferation marker, 2-[11C]-thymidine. Results: When given conditions are met, a linear relationship exists between the normalized tissue activity (tissue activity/blood activity) and a new set of graphical analysis basis functions, including a new definition of normalized time, which takes the presence of labeled metabolites into account. Graphical estimations of the tumor thymidine incorporation rate for simulated data were accurate and showed close agreement to the results of detailed compartmental analysis. In patient studies, the graphical and compartmental estimates showed good agreement but a somewhat poorer correlation than in the simulations. Conclusion: The extended graphical analysis approach provides an efficient method for estimating blood-tissue transfer constants for tracers with labeled metabolites.
Nest acceptance, clutch, and oviposition traits are promising selection criteria to improve egg production in cage-free system. In cage-free systems, laying hens must lay their eggs in the nests. Selecting layers based on nesting behavior would be a good strategy for improving egg production in these breeding systems. However, little is known about the genetic determinism of nest-related traits. Laying rate in the nests (LRN), clutch number (CN), oviposition traits (OT), and nest acceptance for laying (NAL) of 1,430 Rhode Island Red (RIR) hens and 1,008 White Leghorn (WL) hens were recorded in floor pens provided with individual electronic nests. Heritability and genetic and phenotypic correlations of all traits were estimated over two recording periods–the peak (24–43 weeks of age) and the middle (44–64 weeks of age) of production–by applying the restricted maximum likelihood method to an animal model. The mean oviposition time (MOT) ranged from 2 h 5 min to 3 h and from 3 h 35 min to 3 h 44 min after turning on the lights for RIR and WL hens, respectively. The mean oviposition interval ranged from 24 h 3 min to 24 h 16 min. All heritability and correlation estimates were similar for RIR and WL. Low to moderate heritability coefficients were estimated for LRN (0.04–0.25) and moderate to high heritability coefficients for CN and OT (0.27–0.68). CN and OT were negatively genetically correlated with LRN (-0.92 to -0.39) except during peak production for RIR (-0.30 to +0.43). NAL was weakly to moderately heritable (0.13–0.26). Genetic correlations between NAL and other traits were low to moderate (-0.41 to +0.44). In conclusion, CN and OT are promising selection criteria to improve egg production in cage-free systems. NAL can be also used to reduce the number of eggs laid off-nest in these breeding systems. However, variability in MOT must be maintained to limit competition for the nests.
Population structure and linkage disequilibrium in a large collection of Fusarium oxysporum strains analysed through iPBS markers. In the current study, 160 pathogenic strains of Fusarium oxysporum collected from tomato, eggplant and pepper were studied. Eighteen inter-primer binding site (iPBS)-retrotransposon primers were used, and these primers generated 205 scorable polymorphic bands. The number of polymorphic bands per primer varied between 9 and 19, with a mean of 11 bands per primer. The highest polymorphism information content (PIC) value was determined as 0.27, and the lowest was 0.05. The unweighted pair-group method with arithmetic averages (UPGMA) dendrogram including a heat map revealed that the 160 pathogenic strains of F. oxysporum were divided into two main clusters. The first cluster mainly included F. oxysporum f. sp. capsici (FOC) and F. oxysporum f. sp. melongenae (FOMG) isolates. The second cluster mainly comprised F. oxysporum f. sp. lycopersici (FOL) and F. oxysporum f. sp. radicis lycopersici (FORL) isolates. The highest percentage of loci in significant linkage disequilibrium (LD) was detected for FOL, whereas the lowest level of LD was found for FOC, and 95.2%, 99.4%, 99.1% and 97.4% of the relative kinship estimates were less than 0.4 for FOL, FOMG, FORL and FOC, respectively. LD differences were detected among formae speciales, and LD was higher in FOL as compare to FOC species. The findings of this study confirm that iPBS-retrotransposon markers are highly polymorphic at the intraspecific level in Fusarium spp.
A single pH fluorescent probe for biosensing and imaging of extreme acidity and extreme alkalinity. A simple tailor-made pH fluorescent probe 2-benzothiazole (N-ethylcarbazole-3-yl) hydrazone (Probe) is facilely synthesized by the condensation reaction of 2-hydrazinobenzothiazole with N-ethylcarbazole-3-formaldehyde, which is a useful fluorescent probe for monitoring extremely acidic and alkaline pH, quantitatively. The pH titrations indicate that Probe displays a remarkable emission enhancement with a pKa of 2.73 and responds linearly to minor pH fluctuations within the extremely acidic range of 2.21–3.30. Interestingly, Probe also exhibits strong pH-dependent characteristics with pKa 11.28 and linear response to extreme-alkalinity range of 10.41–12.43. In addition, Probe shows a large Stokes shift of 84 nm under extremely acidic and alkaline conditions, high selectivity, excellent sensitivity, good water-solubility and fine stability, all of which are favorable for intracellular pH imaging. The probe is further successfully applied to image extremely acidic and alkaline pH values fluctuations in E. coli cells.
Genetic resources and breeding methodologies for improving drought tolerance in wheat. Yield gains from rain-fed wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) production, particularly in areas experiencing intermittent and terminal dry spells, can be realized through integrated breeding with promising genetic and genomic resources using appropriate methodologies. This enables targeted recombination of novel genes for drought tolerance and selection of desirable genotypes. Continuous exploration of new sources of genetic variation and introgression of suitable genes into elite drought-susceptible genotypes, including via transgenic approaches, and the use of genome editing could offer exciting future prospects in acquiring drought-tolerant wheat genotypes. This review highlights the available genetic resources, the major wheat genebanks and databases, as well as the breeding methodologies for drought tolerance in wheat, including prebreeding, conventional breeding, hybrid breeding, and genomics-assisted breeding. The potential of genetic modification through the transgenic and genome-editing approaches is also discussed. Emphasis is placed on how best these breeding methods can be brought together to develop strategies aimed at improving drought tolerance in wheat.
Controllable redox reaction of chemically purified DNA-single walled carbon nanotube hybrids with hydrogen peroxide. We report for the first time the controllable redox reaction of chemically purified ssDNA-HiPco SWNT hybrids with hydrogen peroxide. Compared with the suspensions before separation, the purified SWNT suspensions become inert with hydrogen peroxide which may serve as a platform for further chemical manipulation. In the presence of thiocyanate ions, the reaction of SWNTs with hydrogen peroxide is initiated and accelerated at the earlier reaction stage, accompanied with the near-infrared spectral suppression. At the later stage, the suppressed spectral intensity is recovered overtime. The thiocyanate ions may work as a mediator being able to control the reaction rate as well as the tunable properties of the reaction. The tunable redox reaction of SWNTs and H2O2 mediated by thiocyanate ions may offer a new sensing scheme for continuously monitoring H2O2 concentrations.
National library of medicine’s medical informatics course, june 2000 at the marine biological laboratory, woods hole, Massachusetts. The Marine Biological Laboratory (MBL) in Woods Hole, Massachusetts is the site of a survey course on medical informatics. Medical librarians have been attending this course with other health professionals for ten years. The purpose of this paper is to offer a description of the setting and synopsis of salient points from a few of the lectures. Hopefully, remarks made in this paper will encourage librarians to apply for the National Library of Medicine grant, which supports the course.
Two Hidden mtDNA-Clades of Crown-of-Thorns Starfish in the Pacific Ocean. Recurring outbreaks of crown-of-thorns starfish (COTS) severely damage healthy corals, especially in the Western Pacific Ocean. To obtain a better understanding of population genetics of COTS and historical colonization across the Pacific Ocean, complete mitochondrial genomes were sequenced from 243 individuals collected in 11 reef regions. Our results indicate that Pacific COTS (Acanthaster cf. solaris) comprise two major clades, an East-Central Pacific (ECP) clade and a Pan-Pacific (PP) clade, separation of which was supported by high bootstrap value. The ECP clade consists of COTS from French Polynesia, Fiji, Vanuatu and the Great Barrier Reef (GBR). The Hawaii population is unique within this clade, while California COTS are included in EPC clade. On the other hand, the PP clade comprises multiple lineages that contain COTS from Vietnam, the Philippines, Japan, Papua New Guinea, Micronesia, the Marshall Islands, GBR, Vanuatu, Fiji and French Polynesia. For example, a lineage of the PP clade, which has the largest geographic distribution, includes COTS from all of these locations. These results suggest two alternative histories of current geographic distributions of COTS in the Pacific Ocean, an ECP clade ancestry or Western Pacific clade ancestry. Although further questions remain to be explored, this discovery provides an evolutionary context for the interpretation of COTS population structure which will aid future coral reef research in the Pacific Ocean, and ultimately improve reef management of COTS.
Comparison of electrospray and matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization on the same hybrid quadrupole time-of-flight tandem mass spectrometer. Application to bidimensional liquid chromatography of proteins from bovine milk fraction. Recently, two ionization sources, electrospray (ESI) and matrix-assisted laser desorption (MALDI) have been used in parallel to exploit their complementary nature and to increase proteome coverage. In this study, a method using bidimensional (2D) nanoLC coupled online with ESI quadrupole time-of-flight (Q-TOF) with the simultaneous collection of fractions for analyses by LC-MALDI Q-TOF-MS/MS was developed. A total of 39 bovine proteins were identified to a high degree of confidence. To help in differentiating peptide detection following ESI and MALDI with the same mass spectrometer, we compared physico-chemical characteristics of the peptides (molecular mass, charge and size) by principal component analysis (PCA) and analysis of variance on the results of PCA. More hydrophobic peptides with a wider mass coverage were identified when ESI was used, whereas more basic and smaller peptides were identified when MALDI was used. However, the generally accepted differentiation between ESI and MALDI according to the presence of basic amino acids residues Lys and Arg and the ratio Lys/Arg was not shown as significant in this study. Moreover, we pointed out the importance of the type of mass spectrometer used in complement to both ionization sources for achieving a global increase of proteome coverage.
Underpinning sustainable vector control through informed insecticide resistance management. Background: There has been rapid scale-up of malaria vector control in the last ten years. Both of the primary control strategies, long-lasting pyrethroid treated nets and indoor residual spraying, rely on the use of a limited number of insecticides. Insecticide resistance, as measured by bioassay, has rapidly increased in prevalence and has come to the forefront as an issue that needs to be addressed to maintain the sustainability of malaria control and the drive to elimination. Zambia's programme reported high levels of resistance to the insecticides it used in 2010, and, as a result, increased its investment in resistance monitoring to support informed resistance management decisions. Methodology/Principal Findings: A country-wide survey on insecticide resistance in Zambian malaria vectors was performed using WHO bioassays to detect resistant phenotypes. Molecular techniques were used to detect target-site mutations and microarray to detect metabolic resistance mechanisms. Anopheles gambiae s.s. was resistant to pyrethroids, DDT and carbamates, with potential organophosphate resistance in one population. The resistant phenotypes were conferred by both target-site and metabolic mechanisms. Anopheles funestus s.s. was largely resistant to pyrethroids and carbamates, with potential resistance to DDT in two locations. The resistant phenotypes were conferred by elevated levels of cytochrome p450s. Conclusions/Significance: Currently, the Zambia National Malaria Control Centre is using these results to inform their vector control strategy. The methods employed here can serve as a template to all malaria-endemic countries striving to create a sustainable insecticide resistance management plan.
Self-adaptation of mobile systems driven by the Common Variability Language. The execution context in which pervasive systems or mobile computing run changes continually. Hence, applications for these systems require support for self-adaptation to the continual context changes. Most of the approaches for self-adaptive systems implement a reconfiguration service that receives as input the list of all possible configurations and the plans to switch between them. In this paper we present an alternative approach for the automatic generation of application configurations and the reconfiguration plans at runtime. With our approach, the generated configurations are optimal as regards different criteria, such as functionality or resource consumption (e.g. battery or memory). This is achieved by: (1) modelling architectural variability at design-time using the Common Variability Language (CVL), and (2) using a genetic algorithm that finds nearly-optimal configurations at run-time using the information provided by the variability model. We also specify a case study and we use it to evaluate our approach, showing that it is efficient and suitable for devices with scarce resources.
Antibacterial effect of Juglans Regia against dental caries Streptococcus mutans. Background: Dental caries is one of the most common and costly diseases in the world and, Streptococcus mutans have been commonly associated as major cariogenic bacteria. Aim: To evaluate the efficiency of some drugs in Kurdistan against S. mutans and study antimicrobial activity of ethanolic and aqueous extract of Juglans regia leave and bark of the walnut on the same isolates. Method: The dental carries samples were collected from 250 students during October 2017 to April 2018, of both sexes with the mean age of 20 years. Biochemical and molecular identification were used for bacterial identification then antibiotic susceptibility assessed by disc diffusion method by using twenty antibiotics. Aqueous and alcoholic extracts of Juglans regia leaves and barks were used for inhibition the growth of isolated bacteria Results: 80 isolates of Streptococcus mutans were identified, there was a wide range of resistant S. mutans against antibiotics, the resistance started from 15% as low percentage of all isolates against each of MY, VA, N and NA antibiotics while, the high percentage of resistance was 95% toward ME and DO. The minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) for alcoholic and aqueous extracts of Juglans regia was 1400, and 1800 µg/ml respectively, ethyl and methyl alcoholic extracts of both parts most effective against S. mutans than aqueous extract. Conclusion: Juglans regia is considered one of the most likely preferable alternative medical plant that used to treat dental caries to avoid the upcoming bacterial resistance to the antibiotic.
Agronomic performance and genetic dissimilarity among cherry tomato genotypes. The genotypes evaluation in a germplasm bank is essential to determine their commercial or usefulness, as potential parents, in a breeding program. We aimed to detect the genetic diversity of 42 tomato genotypes of cherry type, belonging to the germplasm bank of the Federal University of Uberlândia and, also evaluate their behavior. The experiment was conducted in a greenhouse in randomized block design with 42 treatments and two replications. Ten quantitative traits of agronomic importance were evaluated. The genetic divergence was obtained by multivariate analysis, using the Mahalanobis distance with different clustering methods (UPGMA and Tocher). The hybrids performance was compared by Scott-Knott (p= 0.05) and Dunnett’s test (p= 0.05). UPGMA and Tocher grouped the genotypes similarly, representing genetic divergence satisfactorily. The genotypes UFU 29, UFU 21 and UFU 07 were more productive, earlier and also divergent from the pre-commercial treatment (UFU 200), being able to be used as potential parents.
Consumer acceptance of genetically modified (GM)- Cowpeas in sub-Sahara Africa. Cowpea (known as black-eyed peas in America) is the most important indigenous African grain legume for both home use and as a cash crop. Because of its tolerance to drought, it is especially important for the Sahel. Genetic transformation of cowpea with Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) genes to control pod-boring insects has many advantages, but little is known of the potential consumer response. This article analyzes and reports the results of a survey of 200 consumers in northern Nigeria concerning consumer awareness of and acceptance of biotechnology. Ninety percent of the respondents were aware of genetically modified (GM) products. Those respondents who were most concerned about the ethics of genetic transformation were likely to disapprove of such products, while those individuals who identified international radio as an information source were more likely to approve of GM technology.
Jojoba-Genetically controlled botanical traits. The discovery of correlations between botanical traits and wax quantity and quality in the seed would facilitate early detection and elimination of undesirable genotypes in a jojoba breeding program. The traits studied were: (a) branching; upright, spherical, and prostrate strains were found. (b) Leaf size; variability in mean leaf size is continuous ranging from 14×6 mm (long×short leaf axis) to 39×16 mm. (c) Leaf color; a light yellow leaf mutant was found. (d) Earliness; strains were found with early flowering and seed development which might escape unfavorable effects of winter frosts. (e) Number of fruit per node; strains were selected which instead of single fruit have clusters of two to ten fruit in more than 50% of the inflorescences. (f) Fruiting pattern; strains with a flower at each node instead of at every other node were found. (g) Male to female ratio; a significant deviation from a 1:1 ratio was found in favor of male plants.
Cryptic diversity, geographical endemism and allopolyploidy in NE Pacific seaweeds. Background: Molecular markers are revealing a much more diverse and evolutionarily complex picture of marine biodiversity than previously anticipated. Cryptic and/or endemic marine species are continually being found throughout the world oceans, predominantly in inconspicuous tropical groups but also in larger, canopy-forming taxa from well studied temperate regions. Interspecific hybridization has also been found to be prevalent in many marine groups, for instance within dense congeneric assemblages, with introgressive gene-flow being the most common outcome. Here, using a congeneric phylogeographic approach, we investigated two monotypic and geographically complementary sister genera of north-east Pacific intertidal seaweeds (Hesperophycus and Pelvetiopsis), for which preliminary molecular tests revealed unexpected conflicts consistent with unrecognized cryptic diversity and hybridization. Results: The three recovered mtDNA clades did not match a priori species delimitations. H. californicus was congruent, whereas widespread P. limitata encompassed two additional narrow-endemic species from California - P. arborescens (here genetically confirmed) and P. hybrida sp. nov. The congruence between the genotypic clusters and the mtDNA clades was absolute. Fixed heterozygosity was apparent in a high proportion of loci in P. limitata and P. hybrida, with genetic analyses showing that the latter was composed of both H. californicus and P. arborescens genomes. All four inferred species could be distinguished based on their general morphology. Conclusions: This study confirmed additional diversity and reticulation within NE Pacific Hesperophycus/Pelvetiopsis, including the validity of the much endangered, modern climatic relict P. arborescens, and the identification of a new, stable allopolyploid species (P. hybrida) with clearly discernable ancestry (♀ H. californicus x ♂ P. arborescens), morphology, and geographical distribution. Allopolyploid speciation is otherwise completely unknown in brown seaweeds, and its unique occurrence within this genus (P. limitata possibly representing a second example) remains enigmatic. The taxonomic separation of Hesperophycus and Pelvetiopsis is not supported and the genera should be synonymized; we retain only the latter. The transitional coastline between Point Conception and Monterey Bay represented a diversity hotspot for the genus and the likely sites of extraordinary evolutionary events of allopolyploid speciation at sympatric range contact zones. This study pinpoints how much diversity (and evolutionary processes) potentially remains undiscovered even on a conspicuous seaweed genus from the well-studied Californian intertidal shores lne in other, less studied marine groups and regions/depths.
Population structure of the intertidal copepod Tigriopus californicus as revealed by field manipulation of allele frequencies. Allele frequencies in natural T. californicus populations were perturbed by introduction of copepods from neighboring differentiated populations. In five experiments, the GptF allele was introduced into single recipient pools at a frequency of approximately 20%. In each case, the introduced allele declined to low frequencies (<3%) in less than one month, apparently due to dilution by residents of other pools on the same outcrop. In a larger scale experiment, the PgiF was introduced into four pools on a single small rock outcrop; all pools on the outcrop were subsequently monitored. While the allele frequency fell from approximately 40% to 10% during the first six weeks after the transplant, no further change in frequency was observed for the duration of the experiment (16 months). Within six weeks some spread of the allele to non-recipient pools on the same outcrop was observed; by eight months, allele frequencies in all pools on the outcrop were similar. Hence, despite the extensive turnover of subpopulations as single pools evaporate or are washed out, genetic homogeneity and stability of entire outcrops are maintained via extensive inter-pool gene flow; this contrasts sharply with the highly restricted levels of inter-outcrop gene flow.
Sexually dimorphic pelvic morphology in South African whites and blacks. It is well known that there is metric and morphologic variation in the expression of sexual dimorphism between racial phenotypes and populations. Therefore, the purpose of this research is to assess morphologic sex differences in the pelves of South African whites and blacks. Results will be used to improve the identification of human skeletal remains by producing group specific standards. Morphologic features of both left and right os coxae were studied in a sample of 400 known sex/race individuals from the Pretoria and Dart collections. Bones that were clearly pathologic or visibly deformed were excluded from the study. Data were subjected to SPSS analysis. Results indicated that overall, pubic bone shape was the easiest to assess and was the most consistently reliable morphological indicator of sex in both sexes and population groups. At 88% average accuracy, the most discriminating traits in whites were pubic bone shape and subpubic concavity form. In blacks, greater sciatic notch form allowed the highest separation, averaging 87.5%, followed by pubic shape at 84.5%. Important findings included the fact that there were significant differences in the accuracy of sex determination from pelvic morphology between both males and females and whites and blacks. In conclusion, this study provides quantification of individual morphological traits in the os coxae of white and black South Africans that will be of value in forensic and archaeological analyses, especially when dealing with fragmentary remains. It also demonstrates that population differences affect the expression of sexual dimorphism and must be accounted for to develop the most effective methods of analysis.
Linking Stress, Catecholamine Autotoxicity, and Allostatic Load with Neurodegenerative Diseases: A Focused Review in Memory of Richard Kvetnansky. In this Focused Review, we provide an update about evolving concepts that may link chronic stress and catecholamine autotoxicity with neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson’s disease. Richard Kvetnansky’s contributions to the field of stress and catecholamine systems inspired some of the ideas presented here. We propose that coordination of catecholaminergic systems mediates adjustments maintaining health and that senescence-related disintegration of these systems leads to disorders of regulation and to neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson’s disease. Chronically repeated episodes of stress-related catecholamine release and reuptake, with attendant increases in formation of the toxic dopamine metabolite 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetaldehyde, might accelerate this process.
Isolation and genotyping of Toxoplasma gondii from free-range ducks in Malaysia. Toxoplasma gondii is a parasitic protozoan that infects nearly one-third of humans. The present study was performed to isolate and genotype T. gondii from free-range ducks in Malaysia. Sera, heads, and hearts from 205 ducks were obtained from four states in Peninsular Malaysia, and 30 (14.63%) sera were found to be seropositive when assayed with the modified agglutination test (MAT ≥ 1/6). All the positive samples were inoculated into mice, and T. gondii was successfully isolated from four individual duck samples (1.95%), which were initially found to be strongly seropositive (MAT ≥ 1/24). The isolates were subjected to PCR-RFLP analysis, and two T. gondii strains were identified: type I and type II. This is the first reported study on the genetic characterization of T. gondii isolates from free-range farm animals in Southeast Asia.
Identification of QTLs for drought tolerance traits on wheat chromosome 2A using association mapping. Association mapping analysis was performed on a set of 108 diverse wheat accessions to dissect the genetic background of drought adaptive traits. These genotypes were characterized with 28 SSR loci on chromosome 2A. Fifteen agronomic traits were evaluated under well irrigated and drought conditions. Population structure and Kinship were inferred on the basis of 30 unlinked SSR loci covering all the 21 chromosomes, which enhanced the mapping strength by eliminating spurious associations. A total of 11 marker trait associations were detected by mixed linear model approach (MLM). The phenotypic variation explained by each marker ranged 4.26% to 13.6%. Out of 11, eight marker trait associations were found under drought and 3 marker trait associations were found under normal conditions. SSR locus Xgwm312 showed association with relative water content (RWC) under normal conditions and detected in both years. Similarly, awn length showed association with Xcfa2099 under drought conditions. SSR locus Xwmc455 showed association with thousand grain weight (TGW) under well irrigated conditions. Xbarc124 was associated with coleoptiles length, shoot length and extrusion length. This study has highlighted a novel set of loci which are associated with drought adaptive traits and can be used for marker assisted breeding to enhance the wheat performance under unfavorable conditions.
The crystal structure of thrombin-activable fibrinolysis inhibitor (TAFI) provides the structural basis for its intrinsic activity and the short half-life of TAFIa. Mature thrombin-activable fibrinolysis inhibitor (TAFIa) is a highly unstable metallocarboxypeptidase that stabilizes blood clots by clipping C-terminal lysine residues from partially degraded fibrin. In accordance with its in vitro antifibrinolytic activity, animal studies have reported that inhibition of mature TAFI aids in the prevention of thrombosis. The level of TAFI activity is stringently regulated through (i) controlled proteolytic truncation of the zymogen (TAFI), generating the mature enzyme, TAFIa, and (ii) the short half-life of TAFIa. TAFI itself exhibits an intrinsic enzymatic activity, which is likely required to provide a baseline level of antifibrinolytic activity. The novel crystal structure presented here reveals that the active site of TAFI is accessible, providing the structural explanation for the its intrinsic activity. It also supports the notion that an "instability region" exists, in agreement with site-directed mutagenesis studies. Sulfate ions, bound to this region, point toward a potential heparin-binding site and could explain how heparin stabilizes TAFIa.
Characterization of a Novel Moderately Thermophilic Solvent-Tolerant Esterase Isolated From a Compost Metagenome Library. A novel esterase, EstCS1, was isolated from a compost metagenomics library. The EstCS1 protein, which consists of 309 amino acid residues with an anticipated molecular mass of 34 kDa, showed high amino acid sequence identities to predicted esterases and alpha/beta hydrolases (59%) from some cultured bacteria and to predicted lipases/esterases from uncultured bacteria. The phylogenetic analysis suggested that the EstCS1 belongs to the hormone-sensitive lipase family of lipolytic enzyme classification and contains a catalytic triad including Ser155–Asp255–His285. The Ser155 residue of the catalytic triad in the EstCS1 was located in the consensus active-site motif, GXSXG. Besides, a conserved HGGG motif placed in an oxyanion hole of the hormone-sensitive lipase family was discovered, too. The EstCS1 demonstrated the highest activity toward p-nitrophenyl propionate (C3) and caproate (C6) and was normally stable up to 60°C with optimal activity at 50°C. In addition, an optimal activity was observed at pH 8, and the EstCS1 possessed its stability within the pH range between 5 and 10. Interestingly, EstCS1 had an outstanding stability in up to 30% (v/v) organic solvents and activity over 50% in the presence of 50% (v/v) acetone, ethanol, dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), and N,N-dimethylformamide. The EstCS1 hydrolyzed sterically hindered tertiary alcohol esters of t-butyl acetate and linalyl acetate. Considering the properties, such as the moderate thermostability, stability against organic solvents, and activity toward esters of tertiary alcohols, the EstCS1 will be worthwhile to be used for organic synthesis and related industrial applications.
The association of familial liver disease, subepidermal immunoproteins, and membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis. Herein we report a new familial form of hepatic disease. Each of the four patients had splenomegaly, hypersplenism, a small liver, biochemical evidence of hepatic excretory dysfunction and hepatocellular damage, kidneys without demonstrable cysts, and normal blood pressure. An evaluation of serum immunoproteins, autoantibodies, histocompatibility antigens, and mixed lymphocyte reactivity further defined the immunologic features of this syndrome. Extrahepatic manifestations included a papulosquamous dermatitis with deposition of immunoglobulins and complement in both normal and abnormal skin, a membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis with subendothelial deposits, arthritis, and pericardial, pleural, and synovial effusions. © 1977 The C. V. Mosby Company.
Effects of grading on the main quality attributes of peanut kernels. Near infrared reflectance spectroscopy (NIRS) analysis of peanut kernels of different grades by mainly using advanced breeding lines derived from intersectional crosses in two experiments gave similar results, showing remarkable inter-grade variation in oil content of a specific entry. The effects of genotype on qualitative attributes proved to be predominant. No significant differences in protein content, oleic acid/linoleic acid content in total fatty acids, and oleic acid/linoleic acid ratio were detected among the No. 1, No. 2 and No. 3 grade peanut kernels of a given peanut genotype.
Anatomical traits of seven corn-inbred lines including two with gene brown midrib. Anatomical investigations of the stem in seven Zea mays L. Inbred lines were performed on specimens bred in the Experimental Institute of Breeding and Plant Acclimatization in Smolice. Two of the lines (bm1 and bm2) including the gene brown midrib were characterized by a higher digestability. The remaining five lines (S215. S335. S336. S336A and S339) were selective inbred lines used as components in hybrid breeding at the Institute an Smolice. The investigated lines were compared in respect to 50 anatomical traits of the stem. The comparisons were performed by means of the Wroclaw dendrite method. The lines formed three distinct groups according to the degree of similarity. The first group consisted of two lines with the gene brown midrib (bm1 and bm2). the second of four lines (S215. S336. S336A and S339). and the third of line S335. The inclusion of both the lines with gene bm into one group was based on similarity regarding the set of traits of parenchyma, particularly of the peripheral part of the stem, as well as metaxylem and metaphloem traits. However, these lines differed considerably in respect to epidermis traits. It was peculiar that the stomata of the Amaryllis type occurred in one of the lines (S339). Each line made a specific mosaic of traits. The sets of traits characterizing the particular lines were specific in such a degree that they could be used, like a fingerprint, for their identification.
Bee breeding and genetics in Europe. The following overview on bee breeding in Europe was undertaken for the 6th European Bee Conference 'Bees without frontiers' organized by IBRA and held in Cardiff (UK) in July 2002. The European research project 'BABE' (Biodiversity in Apis and Beekeeping in Europe) has been focusing on such issues for several years and it was thought that a review of the current state of bee breeding in various European countries would be useful in planning and evaluating future research programmes. The information for each country was obtained from questionnaires concerning bee-breeding issues sent to national representatives of major bee-breeding institutions (bee breeding centres, national bee breeders associations, apiculture institutes) in different European countries.
A simple total synthesis of cyclopentanoid C9-terpene lactones. The cyclopentanoid C9-terpene lactones, onikulactone (7) and mitsugashiwalactone (8) have been synthesized by a novel intramolecular cyclization of a carbonate ester of cyclopentadienylethanol (2), followed by methylation and hydrogenation.
The complete chloroplast genome sequence of wild service tree Sorbus torminalis (L.) Crantz. Sorbus torminalis is widely distributed tree species across Europe which shows interesting features from the genetic point of view and has high ecological values. Based on the whole genomic DNA we have assembled the complete 160,390 bp circular chloroplast genome of the species. The nucleotide share: 31.35% A, 18.61% C, 17.87% G, 32.12% T and 36.48% GC content is similar to those found in the Pyrus and Malus species. The genome is a standard quadripartite structure build from four subunits: large (88,029 bp) and small (19,547 bp) single copy unit and two inverted repeats (26,407 bp each). The genome contains 127 genes including: 83 protein-coding genes (77 unique), 36 tRNA genes (29 unique), and 8 rRNA genes (4 unique). Phylogenetic position of S. torminalis based on the whole chloroplast genome indicated that the species is phylogenetically closer to genus Malus than Pyrus.
Development, Implementation, and Assessment of a Genetics Curriculum Across Institutions. Objective Many residency programs offer limited exposure and minimal didactic time genetics, despite its frequent use in obstetrics and gynecology. The objective of this study was to develop, pilot, and assess a three-module women's health genetics curriculum for residents that was easily transferable between institutions. Methods An interactive three-module genetics curriculum covering basic principles, prenatal screening/diagnosis, and cancer genetics was developed. A pre- and posttests were used to assess improvement in knowledge. Subjective feedback was obtained to assess curricular satisfaction. The data were analyzed with descriptive statistics. Results The curriculum was administered at two institutions. Forty-eight residents attended ≥ 1 session. Twenty completed the pretest, and 23 completed the posttest. At the first institution, using audience response system, the percentage correct per question increased on 10/14 questions between pre- and posttests. All students felt the curriculum was useful and would strongly recommend to other residents. At the second institution, pre/posttests were distributed on paper. Mean scores significantly improved between pre- and posttests (p = 0.007). On the pretest, no residents scored > 70%. However, 8/13 scored > 70% on the posttest (p = 0.002). Instructors at both institutions described the curriculum as easy to use/implement. Conclusion This three-module workshop on women's health genetics was easily implemented across institutions and led to increased knowledge.
Genetic and physiological modulation of anthracycline‐induced mutagenesis in Salmonella typhimurium. The genotoxic properties of adriamycin and daunomycin, anthracycline antibiotics effective in the treatment of a wide variety of malignancies, were examined in the Salmonella/Ames reverse‐mutation test. A novel time‐ and temperature‐dependent phenomenon that potentiates the mutagenicity of these compounds, termed mutational enhancement, is described. The results of congeneric and chemical attenuation studies imply that anthracycline‐induced free radicals contribute substantively to the mutagenic potentials of adriamycin and daunomycin. These studies show that adriamycin and daunomycin are not simple intercalative compounds. Rather, anthracycline‐induced mutagenesis entails at least two separate but intimately related steps, namely, intercalation within discrete base sequences and the free‐radical‐mediated events that ensue. Implications of the nonrandom and site‐specific action of the anthracyclines are discussed.
Familial generalized delayed eruption of the dentition with short stature. A family with a pedigree displaying prolonged retention of deciduous dentition with accompanying retardation of eruption of the permanent dentition has been investigated. Delayed eruption was found to be distributed in this family in a pattern characteristic of an autosomal dominant trait. Additional findings in these families included extreme short stature, concave midfacial appearance, frontal bossing, delayed skeletal maturation, presence of Wormian bones in lambdoidal suture region of the skull, and large, open fontanelles in infancy.
Studies on optimum harvest time for hybrid rice seed. BACKGROUND: Timely harvest is critical for hybrid rice to achieve maximum seed viability, vigor and yield. However, how to predict the optimum harvest time has been rarely reported so far. RESULTS: The seed vigor of Zhuliangyou 06 (ZLY06) increased and reached the highest level at 20 days after pollination (DAP), when seed moisture content had a lower value, which was maintained until final seed maturation. For Chunyou 84 (CY84), seed vigor, fresh and dry weight had relatively high values at 25 DAP, when seed moisture content reached the lowest value and changed slightly from 25 to 55 DAP. In both hybrid rice varieties, seed glume chlorophyll content declined rapidly from 10 to 30 DAP and remained at a very low level after 35 DAP. Starch content exhibited an increasing trend during seed maturation, while both soluble sugar content and amylase activity decreased significantly at the early stages of seed development. Moreover, correlation analyses showed that seed dry weight, starch content and superoxide dismutase activity were significantly positively correlated with seed vigor. In contrast, chlorophyll content, moisture content, soluble sugar, soluble protein, abscisic acid, gibberellin content, electrical conductivity, catalase and ascorbate peroxidase activities were significantly negatively correlated with seed vigor. Physiological and biochemical parameters were obviously more closely related with seed vigor than with seed germinability during seed development. CONCLUSION: Seed vigor could be better used as a comprehensive factor to predict the optimum seed harvest time. It is suggested that for ZLY06 seeds could be harvested as early as 20 DAP, whereas for CY84 the earliest optimum harvest time was 25 DAP.
Gel electrophoretic analysis of bacteriophage assembly intermediates in bacteriophage plaques.. To increase the efficiency with which the phenotype of bacteriophage mutants is determined by gel electrophoresis, procedures are developed here for the preparation of the contents of bacteriophage plaques for gel electrophoresis. During the formation of plaques, the plaque-supporting upper layer gel is changed from the traditional agar gel to a gel made of a mixture of low-melt agaroses; the lower layer gel is eliminated. To extract particles from plaques, the plaque-supporting gel is disintegrated by both shaking and raising the temperature to 39-43 degrees C. During shaking, the gel is broken to domains that are 5-30 microns in diameter. After extraction, the contents of plaques are subjected to two electrophoretic analyses: (1) Nondenaturing agarose gel electrophoresis is performed after treatment with DNase. This procedure reveals both mature bacteriophage and immature capsids. (2) Nondenaturing agarose gel electrophoresis is performed after release of DNA from DNase-treated capsids. This latter procedure reveals both completely packaged (mature length) DNA and incompletely packaged (shorter than mature length) DNA. The amount of mature length DNA released per 2-3 mm plaque is 10-60 ng. In agreement with results previously obtained in liquid culture, most incompletely packaged DNA has the right, but not the left, mature T7 DNA end.
GCAT-SEEKquence: Genome consortium for active teaching of undergraduates through increased faculty access to next-generation sequencing data. To transform undergraduate biology education, faculty need to provide opportunities for students to engage in the process of science. The rise of research approaches using next-generation (NextGen) sequencing has been impressive, but incorporation of such approaches into the undergraduate curriculum remains a major challenge. In this paper, we report proceedings of a National Science Foundation-funded workshop held July 11-14, 2011, at Juniata College. The purpose of the workshop was to develop a regional research coordination network for undergraduate biology education (RCN/UBE). The network is collaborating with a genome-sequencing core facility located at Pennsylvania State University (University Park) to enable undergraduate students and faculty at small colleges to access state-of-the-art sequencing technology. We aim to create a database of references, protocols, and raw data related to NextGen sequencing, and to find innovative ways to reduce costs related to sequencing and bioinformatics analysis. It was agreed that our regional network for NextGen sequencing could operate more effectively if it were partnered with the Genome Consortium for Active Teaching (GCAT) as a new arm of that consortium, entitled GCAT-SEEK(quence). This step would also permit the approach to be replicated elsewhere. © 2011 V. P. Buonaccorsi
Rational design of a reversible Mg2+/EDTA-controlled molecular switch based on a DNA minidumbbell. Here we report that incorporation of an abasic site to DNA minidumbbells formed by natural sequences can lead to significant enhancements in their thermodynamic stability. Based on these stable minidumbbells, the first metal ion-controlled molecular switch which can regulate instant and reversible DNA duplex formation and dissociation has been constructed.
Scope for genetic enhancement of the parasitisation potential of four native strains of Trichogrammatoidea sp. nr. lutea Girault (Hymenoptera: Trichogrammatidae) in Kenya. In response to emerging interest in commercial mass production of Trichogramma for Helicoverpa armigera biocontrol in eastern Africa, laboratory experiments were undertaken to assess the scope for genetic enhancement of the parasitisation potential of native strains of the local common trichogrammatid species, Trichogrammatoidea sp. nr. lutea. Four promising strains (ex-Kilifi - Kilifi District, ex-Kwa Chai - Kibwezi District, ex-Rarieda - Bondo District and ex-Ebuhayi, Kakamega District) were tested for cross-mating in reciprocal combinations with focus on fecundity and progeny female ratio. While all the crosses resulted in F1 progeny of both sexes, significant differences were observed between homogamic and reciprocal heterogamic crosses in fecundity, progeny production, proportion of female progeny and adult longevity. Among all the crosses, the cross between ex-Rarieda strain females and ex-Kilifi strain males resulted in progeny that was significantly superior in fecundity and progeny female ratio. Conversely, Kilifi strain females crossed to males from ex-Rarieda strain gave rise to progeny with relatively low fecundity and female ratio. There were significant differences between homogamic crosses and most reciprocal heterogamic crosses in the major biological attributes. Genotypic and phenotypic variance-covariance matrices generated for six life-history traits showed high positive correlations for most traits in both inbred (P<0.05) and reciprocal heterogamic crosses (P<0.05 and P<0.001). Fecundity and number of female offspring were the most important factors in the heterogamic crosses. The results confirmed the scope for genetic enhancement through inter-strain crossing for improving the field impact potential of T. sp. nr. lutea being targeted for commercial mass production.
Morphological, phylogenetic and physiological studies of pico-cyanobacteria isolated from the halocline of a saline Meromictic Lake, Lake Suigetsu, Japan. Small cyanobacteria (<2 μm, pico-cyanobacteria) are abundant in waters deeper than the oxic-anoxic zone in the halocline of a saline meromictic lake, Lake Suigetsu, Fukui, Japan. We have isolated 101 strains that were grouped into six groups by means of the phycobiliprotein composition and sequence homology of the intergenic spacer between the 16S and 23S rRNA genes. Significant growth was observed under weak green light (1.5 μmol m -2 s -1, approx. 460 to 600 nm), whereas the cells died under white light at even moderate intensities. The isolates grew in a wide range of salinities (0.2 to 3.2%). Tolerance to sulfide varied: four groups grew in medium containing sulfide, however, two groups did not. None of the isolates were capable of anoxygenic photosynthetic (PS-II independent photosynthetic) growth using sulfide as an electron donor. All groups were included within fresh and brackish water of Synechococcus/ Cyanobium clade, but they were not monophyletic in the 16S rRNA gene-based phylogenetic tree. The physiological properties of pico-cyanobacteria showed that they had the ability to survive in unique physicochemical environments in the halocline of this saline meromictic lake.
Comparative sequence analyses of Epstein-Barr virus nuclear antigen-2 and -3B genes of a fresh Epstein-Barr virus-2 isolate. The nucleotide sequence of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) nuclear antigen (EBNA)-2 and EBNA-3B regions of an EBV-2 isolate in Japan was analyzed. The deduced amino acid sequences of EBNA-2 and EBNA-3B of the isolate and a prototype EBV-2 strain AG876 were identical, but the number of the repeated sequence in EBNA-3B was variable as that of IR-3 in EBNA-1. The remarkably well-conserved sequence seems to suggest that the structure of the EBNA-2 and EBNA-3B genes of EBV-2 is crucial for their function in virus replication.
The SOL Genomics Network. A comparative resource for Solanaceae biology and beyond. The SOL Genomics Network (SGN; ) is a rapidly evolving comparative resource for the plants of the Solanaceae family, which includes important crop and model plants such as potato (Solanum tuberosum), eggplant (Solanum melongena), pepper (Capsicum annuum), and tomato (Solanum lycopersicum). The aim of SGN is to relate these species to one another using a comparative genomics approach and to tie them to the other dicots through the fully sequenced genome of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). SGN currently houses map and marker data for Solanaceae species, a large expressed sequence tag collection with computationally derived unigene sets, an extensive database of phenotypic information for a mutagenized tomato population, and associated tools such as real-time quantitative trait loci. Recently, the International Solanaceae Project (SOL) was formed as an umbrella organization for Solanaceae research in over 30 countries to address important questions in plant biology. The first cornerstone of the SOL project is the sequencing of the entire euchromatic portion of the tomato genome. SGN is collaborating with other bioinformatics centers in building the bioinformatics infrastructure for the tomato sequencing project and implementing the bioinformatics strategy of the larger SOL project. The overarching goal of SGN is to make information available in an intuitive comparative format, thereby facilitating a systems approach to investigations into the basis of adaptation and phenotypic diversity in the Solanaceae family, other species in the Asterid clade such as coffee (Coffea arabica), Rubiaciae, and beyond.
Personalized medicine in India: Mirage or a viable goal?. Personalized medicine refers to using individual patient characteristics including phenotype and genotype, to tailor the therapeutic strategy. This approach seeks to challenge the 'one-size-fits-all' method to patient management. In the bargain, it reduces adverse drug reactions, improves compliance, and reduces the economic burden of disease management. Traditionally, as extrapolated from usage in oncology, the term applied to using genomic, metabolomic, and epigenomic data in selecting medications; however, even simpler data such as clinical phenotype can aid therapeutic decision making. Autoimmune diseases provide many such data points, owing to the multi-organ nature of clinical manifestations as well as the availability of a wide variety of tests for antibodies as well as cytokines. Rheumatologists already use personalization intuitively, based on various factors such as organ involvement, comorbidities, fertility concerns, and costs. However, in a literature search, few studies look at tailoring treatment regimens to individual characteristics. Building coherent databases can help in better analysis of data and answering locally relevant questions in the future.
Chronic abdominal pain and Budd-Chiari syndrome: A relentless quest for an underlying neoplastic etiology. In this article, we report on a 62-year-old non-cirrhotic male presenting to the emergency department (ED) with chronic abdominal pain, anorexia, and weight loss. Upon initial presentation, physical exam was unremarkable, other than for sarcopenia and splenomegaly. Initial imaging studies revealed a large thrombosis from the iliac vein to the right atrium of the heart. Following discharge, the patient re-consulted to the ED four months later and was re-admitted in renal failure and ascites. The diagnosis of Budd-Chiari syndrome (BCS) was established. Positive immunohistochemistry confirmed a neoplastic ideology of epithelial nature. This case offers a unique perspective on the clinical presentation of secondary BCS, necessitating a consideration in the differential diagnosis of a para-vascular cause. In this case, chronic abdominal pain, often overlooked, may necessitate further workup to establish a clinical diagnosis.
A gray-encoded, hybrid-accelerated, genetic algorithm for global optimizations in dynamical systems. A gray-encoded hybrid accelerating genetic algorithm (GHAGA) with Nelder-Mead simplex searching operator and simplex algorithm is developed for the global optimization of dynamical systems. The corresponding convergence theorem is developed to guarantee the new algorithm to be convergent. The efficiency of the new algorithm is verified by application of several well-investigated nonlinear functions. This algorithm overcomes any Hamming-cliff phenomena in existing genetic methods, and it is very efficient for optimizing nonlinear models compared to existing genetic algorithms and other traditional optimization methods.
Observation of a distinct transition in the mode of interconversion of ring pucker conformers in non-crystalline D-ribose-2′-d from 2H NMR spin alignment. Internal motions of D-ribose selectively 2H-labeled at the 2′ position were measured using solid state 2H NMR experiments. A sample of D-ribose-2′-d was prepared in a hydrated, non-crystalline state to eliminate effects of crystal-packing. Between temperatures of -74 and -60°C the C2′-H2′ bond was observed to undergo two kinds of motions which were similar to those of C2′-H2′/H2″ found previously in crystalline deoxythymidine (Hiyama  (1989) J. Am. Chem. Soc., 111, 8609-8613): (1) Nanosecond motion of small angular displacement with an apparent activation energy of 3.6 ± 0.7 kcal mol-1, and (2) millisecond to microsecond motion of large amplitude with an apparent activation energy ≥4 kcal mol-1. At -74°C, the slow, large-amplitude motion was best characterized as a two-site jump with a correlation time on the millisecond time scale, whereas at -60°C it was diffusive on the microsecond time scale. The slow, large-amplitude motions of the C2′-H2′ bond are most likely from interconversions between C2′-endo and C3′-endo by way of the O4′-endo conformation, whereas the fast, small-amplitude motions are probably librations of the C2′-H2′ bond within the C2′-endo and C3′-endo potential energy minima.
Morphological and behavioral differences in the gastropod Trophon geversianus associated to distinct environmental conditions, as revealed by a multidisciplinary approach. The gastropod Trophon geversianus exhibits shell polymorphisms along its distribution in subtidal and intertidal habitats. Our hypothesis is that morphological and behavioral patterns of T. geversianus represent habitat-specific constrains; subsequently we expect an association between shell morphology, attachment behavior, and habitat. In order to test this hypothesis we compared individuals from intertidal and subtidal habitats, at three sites in Golfo Nuevo (Argentina). We analyzed shell morphology using classic morphometric variables, 3D geometric morphometrics and computing tomography scan. The results were complemented with field observations of attachment to substrate and turning time behavior, as well as of the number of shell scars produced by crab predation. Our results showed differences in shell size and shape between intertidal and subtidal-collected individuals. Centroid size, total weight and shell weight, as well as shell density and thickness were significantly lower in intertidal individuals than in subtidal ones. Gastropods from intertidal habitats presented a low-spired shell and an expanded aperture which might allow better attachment to the bottom substrate, while subtidal individuals presented a slender and narrower shell shape. The number of crab scars was significantly higher in shells from subtidal individuals. Observations of the behavior of gastropods placed at the intertidal splash zone showed 100% of attachment to the bottom in the intertidal individuals, while subtidal specimens only attached in average in 32% of the cases. These latter took 12 times longer to re-attach to the bottom when faced up. Phylogenetic analysis of COI gene fragments showed no consistent differences among individuals sampled in both habitats. All these results suggest that T. geversianus has developed two ecomorphs with distinct morphological and behavioral responses to physically stressful conditions registered in north Patagonian intertidals, as opposed to lower physical stress but higher predation pressure in the subtidal habitats. The findings of this work constitute a starting point in the study of ecological adaptation processes in gastropods from Patagonian coastal environments.
Method of Selection of Bacteria Antibiotic Resistance Genes Based on Clustering of Similar Nucleotide Sequences. A new method for selection of bacterium antibiotic resistance genes is proposed and tested for solving the problems related to selection of primers for PCR assay. The method implies clustering of similar nucleotide sequences and selection of group primers for all genes of each cluster. Clustering of resistance genes for six groups of antibiotics (aminoglycosides, β-lactams, fluoroquinolones, glycopeptides, macrolides and lincosamides, and fusidic acid) was performed. The method was tested for 81 strains of bacteria of different genera isolated from patients (K. pneumoniae, Staphylococcus spp., S. agalactiae, E. faecalis, E. coli, and G. vaginalis). The results obtained by us are comparable to those in the selection of individual genes; this allows reducing the number of primers necessary for maximum coverage of the known antibiotic resistance genes during PCR analysis.
Donor Promiscuity of a Thermostable Transketolase by Directed Evolution: Efficient Complementation of 1-Deoxy-d-xylulose-5-phosphate Synthase Activity. Enzymes catalyzing asymmetric carboligation reactions typically show very high substrate specificity for their nucleophilic donor substrate components. Structure-guided engineering of the thermostable transketolase from Geobacillus stearothermophilus by directed in vitro evolution yielded new enzyme variants that are able to utilize pyruvate and higher aliphatic homologues as nucleophilic components for acyl transfer instead of the natural polyhydroxylated ketose phosphates or hydroxypyruvate. The single mutant H102T proved the best hit toward 3-methyl-2-oxobutyrate as donor, while the double variant H102L/H474S showed highest catalytic efficiency toward pyruvate as donor. The latter variant was able to complement the auxotrophic deficiency of Escherichia coli cells arising from a deletion of the dxs gene, which encodes for activity of the first committed step into the terpenoid biosynthesis, offering the chance to employ a growth selection test for further enzyme optimization.
Competition and facilitation between the marine nitrogen-fixing cyanobacterium Cyanothece and its associated bacterial community. N2-fixing cyanobacteria represent a major source of new nitrogen and carbon for marine microbial communities, but little is known about their ecological interactions with associated microbiota. In this study we investigated the interactions between the unicellular N2-fixing cyanobacterium Cyanothece sp. Miami BG043511 and its associated free-living chemotrophic bacteria at different concentrations of nitrate and dissolved organic carbon (DOC) and different temperatures. High temperature strongly stimulated the growth of Cyanothece, but had less effect on the growth and community composition of the chemotrophic bacteria. Conversely, nitrate and carbon addition did not significantly increase the abundance of Cyanothece, but strongly affected the abundance and species composition of the associated chemotrophic bacteria. In nitrate-free medium the associated bacterial community was co-dominated by the putative diazotroph Mesorhizobium and the putative aerobic anoxygenic phototroph Erythrobacter and after addition of organic carbon also by the Flavobacterium Muricauda. Addition of nitrate shifted the composition toward co-dominance by Erythrobacter and the Gammaproteobacterium Marinobacter. Our results indicate that Cyanothece modified the species composition of its associated bacteria through a combination of competition and facilitation. Furthermore, within the bacterial community, niche differentiation appeared to play an important role, contributing to the coexistence of a variety of different functional groups. An important implication of these findings is that changes in nitrogen and carbon availability due to, e.g., eutrophication and climate change are likely to have a major impact on the species composition of the bacterial community associated with N2-fixing cyanobacteria.
Design and Optimization of Combined Energy Absorption Devices Based on Free Inversion. To study the energy absorption characteristics of the three-section straight-turned tubes under axial compression, the nonlinear finite element software LS-DYNA was used for simulation and analysis. It is found that the force-displacement curve is unified in a very stable horizontal line when the thickness of the upper tube is slightly larger than that of the lower tube, with the product of compression force efficiency up to 0.838 7, SEA equals to 15.342 8 J/g and the stroke efficiency up to 76%, which are close to the theoretical values respectively. Due to the characteristics of high stroke efficiency, smooth force-displacement curve but deficient in SEA, bellows and multicellular tube were filled inside the three-section straight-turn tubes to improve the SEA, whose results show that the combined energy absorption device maintains the characteristics of high stroke efficiency and stable load, while creating an increase by 105.75% in total energy absorption and 26.28% in SEA, comparing with the single three-section straight-turn tubes. Then the radial basis function proxy model and the genetic algorithm were applied to optimize the SEA of the combined energy absorbing devices. Optimization results show that the maximum SEA is obtained with the multicellular tube, bellows taking the upper limit and lower limit of thickness individually; the value increases by 30.86%, comparing with the single three-section straight-turn tubes.
Simulation and optimization of assembly processes involving flexible parts. A method is described for the simulation and optimization of assembly processes involving flexible parts. The method, which can be applied to a wide range of assembly problems, combines traditional elastostatic structural analysis with techniques used to evaluate statistics of system with stochastic parameters. Results from an illustrative sample problem demonstrate the potential of this method in controlling the dimensional variation of the finished product.
Molecular phylogeny of extant gymnosperms and seed plant evolution: Analysis of nuclear 18s rRNA sequences. To study the evolutionary relationships among the four living gymnosperm orders and the interfamilial relationships in each order, a set of 65 nuclear 18S rRNA sequences from ferns, gymnosperms, and angiosperms was analyzed using the neighbor-joining and maximum-parsimony methods. With Selaginella as the outgroup, the analysis strongly indicates that the seed plants form a monophyletic group with the ferns as a sister group. Within the seed plants the angiosperms are clearly a monophyletic group. Although the bootstrap support for the monophyly of the gymnosperm clade is moderate, the monophyly is further supported by its lack of angiosperm-specific indels. Within the gymnosperms there appear to be three monophyletic clades: Cycadales- Ginkgoales, Gnetales, and Coniferales. The cycad-ginkgo clade is the earliest gymnosperm lineage. Given the strong support for the sister group relationship between Gnetales and Coniferales, it is unlikely that Gnetales is a sister group of the angiosperms, contrary to the view of many plant taxonomists. Within Coniferales. Pinaceae is monophyletic and basal to the remaining conifer families, among which there are three monophyletic clades: Phyllocladaceae-Podocarpaceae, Araucariaceae, and Sciadopityaceae-Taxaceae- Cephalotaxaceae-Taxodiaceae-Cupressaceae. Within the latter clade, Sciadopityaceae may be an outgroup to the other four families. Among the angiosperms, no significant cluster at the level of subclass was found, but there was evidence that Nymphaeaceae branched off first. Within the remaining angiosperms, the monocots included in this study are nested and form a monophyletic group. This study attests to the utility of nuclear 18S rRNA sequences in addressing relationships among living gymnosperms. Considerable variation in substitution rates was observed among the ferns and seed plants.
Properties of live antibiotics-resistant anthrax vaccine STI-PR after long-term storage. Study showed that cultural, morphologic, genetic, immunologic characteristics, and resistance to antibiotics of STI-PR anthrax vaccine did not change after storage during 20 years in lyophilized condition. It has been shown that medium for lyophilization plays important role in preservation of vitality of anthrax spores. Optimal preservative properties have been observed for thioureal and sucrose-gelatinous media for lyophilization. Obtained results give reasons for prolongation of shelf live of STI-PR vaccine from 2 - 3 to 5 - 8 years.
Blockchain technologies: Opportunities for solving real-world problems in healthcare and biomedical sciences. Introduction: Blockchain technology is associated with the financial industry, but it can be applied to other industries. The supporting architecture of blockchain has the immense potential to transform the delivery of healthcare, medical, clinical, and life sciences, due to the extended functionality and distinct features of its distributed ledger. The potential scale of impact is comparable to that seen with the introduction of TCP/IP. Blockchain technology has captured the interest of healthcare providers and biomedical scientists within various healthcare domains such as longitudinal healthcare records, automated claims, drug development, interoperability in population health, consumer health, patient portals, medical research, data security, and reducing costs with supply chain management. It is not yet clear if blockchain is going to disrupt healthcare, but healthcare organizations are monitoring its potential closely for prospective concepts like secure patient IDs. Realistically, the adoption and implementation of blockchains will be a gradual evolution over time, but now is the time to take a fresh look at its possibilities in healthcare and biomedical sciences. Blockchain technology revolutionary solutions are bringing us closer to the possibility of every patient record being able to send updates to an open-source, community-wide trusted ledger that is accessible and understood across organizations with guaranteed integrity. Aim and Methods: This paper discusses as a review some potential areas of opportunity for blockchain in the health and biomedical sciences fields. Results and Conclusions: This paper describes and synthesizes 20 examples of real-world use-case scenarios for blockchains in healthcare and biomedical practice.
Complete bypass of restriction systems for major staphylococcus aureus lineages. Staphylococcus aureus is a prominent global nosocomial and community-acquired bacterial pathogen. A strong restriction barrier presents a major hurdle for the introduction of recombinant DNA into clinical isolates of S. aureus. Here, we describe the construction and characterization of the IMXXB series of Escherichia coli strains that mimic the type I adenine methylation profiles of S. aureus clonal complexes 1, 8, 30, and ST93. The IMXXB strains enable direct, high-efficiency transformation and streamlined genetic manipulation of major S. aureus lineages.
Hereditary angioedema, a rare cause of acute abdominal pain with ascites. History and clinical findings: Since the age of 16 years a now 25-year- old woman had been known to have C1-inhibitor (C1-INH) deficiency. She presented herself at the emergency department because of acute severe lower abdominal cramps. A urinary infection had been treated with antibiotics for the previous 4 days. There was marked pain on pressure over the lower abdomen, but there were no signs of peritonitis and bowel sound were normal. There had been no nausea or vomiting and the stools had been normal. Investigations: There was a leukocytosis of 10200/μl, moderately elevated C- reactive protein (44.8 mg/l), haemoglobin concentration of 17 g/dl and haematocrit of 51%. Radiology revealed oedema of the duodenum and sonography showed free fluid in the abdomen. Treatment and course: After excluding an acute abdomen and in view of the C1-INH deficiency treatment was symptomatic. All symptoms completely disappeared after 2 days. Conclusions: Exclusively gastrointestinal symptoms and ascites are rare in patients with hereditary angioedema. But knowledge of this manifestation of the disease is important because patients are sometimes operated under the false diagnosis of acute abdomen. In severe cases symptomatic treatment may have to be supplemented by C1-INH administration. Prevention with attenuated androgens should be started or modified, respectively.
Development of diagnostic kit "Ptakh-Grip PLR" for detection of highly pathogenic strain of avian influenza virus H5N1 by polymerase chain reaction. A diagnostic kit for detection of avian influenza virus by real-time polymerase chain reaction was developed. This kit allows to identify the influenza viruses type A and highly pathogenic strain of avian influenza virus H5N1. The diagnostic kit is universal and adopted for ABI PRISM SDS (Applied Biosystems), RotorGene (Corbett Research) and iQCycler (BioRad) PCR machines.
Modulatory effects of condensed tannin fractions of different molecular weights from a Leucaena leucocephala hybrid on the bovine rumen bacterial community in vitro. BACKGROUND: Condensed tannin (CT) fractions of different molecular weights (MWs) may affect rumen microbial metabolism by altering bacterial diversity. In this study the effects of unfractionated CTs (F0) and five CT fractions (F1-F5) of different MWs (F1, 1265.8 Da; F2, 1028.6 Da; F3, 652.2 Da; F4, 562.2 Da; F5, 469.6 Da) from Leucaena leucocephala hybrid-Rendang (LLR) on the structure and diversity of the rumen bacterial community were investigated in vitro.
Genetic evaluation and genetic trend of growth traits of Zandi sheep in semi-arid Iran using random regression models. A number of 5573 body weight records of 1523 lambs from 164 sires and 875 dams were used to estimate additive genetic, direct and maternal permanent environmental effects on growth from 1 to 300 days of age. The data were collected during the period 1993-2007 from the rearing and breeding station of Zandi sheep in Tehran, Iran and analyzed fitting the random regression (RR) models. Fixed effects in models included age of dam, sex of lamb, type of birth and year of birth. The independent variables were Legendre polynomials of age at weighing and orders of fit from 2 to 5 were considered. The assumptions about the distribution of the residual variance were compared. The variances increased along the trajectory from 0.02 to 25.86, 0.21 to 5.46 and 0.09 to 3.90 for direct additive genetic, direct and maternal permanent environmental effect, respectively. The direct heritability ranged from 0.06 at 1 days of age to 0.52 at 300 days of age. The genetic changes of birth weight from 1991 to 2007 appear to be flat. For the other selected weight (150-d and 300-d weights), plots of genetic trends following similar increasing patterns. The Zandi sheep growth was adequately modeled using RR models despite the limited data. This study has demonstrated the possibility of application of RR models for routine genetic evaluation of Zandi sheep in Iran.
Graptoloid diversity and disparity became decoupled during the Ordovician mass extinction. The morphological study of extinct taxa allows for analysis of a diverse set of macroevolutionary hypotheses, including testing for change in the magnitude of morphological divergence, extinction selectivity on form, and the ecological context of radiations. Late Ordovician graptoloids experienced a phylogenetic bottleneck at the Hirnantian mass extinction (∼445 Ma), when a major clade of graptoloids was driven to extinction while another clade simultaneously radiated. In this study, we developed a dataset of 49 ecologically relevant characters for 183 species with which we tested two main hypotheses: (i) could the biased survival of one graptoloid clade over another have resulted from morphological selectivity alone and (ii) are the temporal patterns of morphological disparity and innovation during the recovery consistent with an interpretation as an adaptive radiation resulting from ecological release? We find that a general model of morphological selectivity has a low probability of producing the observed pattern of taxonomic selectivity. Contrary to predictions from theory on adaptive radiations and ecological speciation, changes in disparity and species richness are uncoupled. We also find that the early recovery is unexpectedly characterized by relatively low morphological disparity and innovation, despite also being an interval of elevated speciation. Because it is necessary to invoke factors other than ecology to explain the graptoloid recovery, more complex models may be needed to explain recovery dynamics after mass extinctions.
The Algorithm of Concrete Surface Crack Detection Based on the Genetic Programming and Percolation Model. Because of the impact of the variation in different concrete surface images, such as the heterogeneity of the detection environment, uneven illumination, stains, the block, and water leakage, the existing crack detection algorithms cannot detect the real crack quickly and effectively. In this paper, a genetic algorithm based on genetic programming (GP) and percolation model is proposed. This method involves three steps. First, the cracks are pre-extracted by the image processing model of GP. Second, the crack tip is calculated after the crack skeleton is extracted. With the endpoint as the anchor point, high speed, and high precision percolation are used to detect the cracks with small width accurately. Concurrently, the fracture unit areas are scanned for connection. Finally, the pre-extracted cracks are connected with the cracks detected by the percolation, and the mass interference area is removed to obtain the real cracks on the concrete surface. The simulation results show that the concrete surface crack detection algorithm based on the GP and percolation model can effectively combine both of their advantages. The algorithm proposed in this paper can detect real concrete surface cracks accurately and effectively with strong robustness.
Cultivar identification and genetic fingerprinting of guava (Psidium guajava) using microsatellite markers. Guavas (Psidium guajava) are perennial fruit trees cultivated in tropical and subtropical areas of the world. In this study, we have characterized nine guava cultivars using 23 microsatellite markers. The number of alleles ranged from 3 to 12 with a mean of 6.39 alleles per locus. The polymorphic information content of the markers ranged from 0.340 to 0.900 with a mean of 0.749. The expected heterozygosity ranged from 0.392 to 0.961 with a mean of 0.824. The probability of identity ranged from 0.031 to 0.487 with a mean of 0.143. The total probability of identity was 2.73 × 10-22. Additionally, cluster analysis was done using both Wards minimum variance method and Neighbor Joining method. The clustering pattern generated from both the methodologies, distinctly grouped the pink flesh varieties and the white flesh varieties into two groups. Molecular barcodes have been developed for all the cultivars, which will increase the precision for their identification.
Conceiving reproduction: New reproductive technologies and the redefinition of the kinship narrative in New Zealand society. This paper focuses on technologies for assisting conception and considers how normative notions of conception and family formation have informed the rejection, incorporation and adaptation of technologies and their regulation in New Zealand. Drawing on a textual analysis of primary written materials and secondary sources generated between 1965 and 2004, the paper reveals how these technologies help various groups in New Zealand society make explicit their understandings of relatedness, identity and social and cultural belonging. Whilst biological/genetic connection and social connections inform understandings of kinship, reproduction, parenthood and social structure for many New Zealanders, the boundaries between the biological and social are often blurred and precedence of one over the other is very much context dependent. The incorporation of the new reproductive technologies has been an inherently politicised process, with barriers to access to these technologies emerging in relation to ethnic identity and race, sexuality, socioeconomic status, gender, and marital status.
Effect of Enterococcus faecium as a Water and/or Feed Additive on the Gut Microbiota, Hematologic and Immunological Parameters, and Resistance Against Francisellosis and Streptococcosis in Nile Tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus). In the present study, we evaluated the effects of administering Enterococcus faecium in food and/or water on the hematological and immunological parameters, intestinal microbiota, resistance to bacterial diseases (streptococcosis and francisellosis) and growth of Nile tilapia. Before the in vivo experiment, probiotic bacteria isolated from Nile tilapia were selected via inhibition tests. Sequencing, annotation, and assembly of the complete genome of the selected bacteria as well as other tests were performed using bioinformatics tools. Three treatments were implemented: G1 (probiotic feeding), G2 (probiotic in water), and G3 (probiotic in food and water); and a negative control (NC) was also employed. Treatment lasted 38 days, and each group consisted of fish and two repetitions. The fish were divided and infected with Streptococcus agalactiae S13 (serotype Ib) and Francisella orientalis. The G1 group had a higher average final weight gain than the G2, G3, and NC groups. Further, a significant increase in the number of thrombocytes was observed in the groups administered probiotics in the diet (G1 and G3). A statistical difference was observed in the mortality of fish infected with S. agalactiae in the NC compared to the treated groups. Cetobacterium was the 43 most abundant genus in the intestinal microbiota of all groups, including the NC group. E. faecium increased the immunity of fish administered the treatment and decreased the mortality caused by S. agalactiae. As an autochtone probiotic, E. faecium does not interfere with the local ecosystem and thus has a great probiotic potential for Nile tilapia in Brazil.
Identification of specific UGT1A9-mediated glucuronidation of licoricidin in human liver microsomes. Licoricidin is a major prenylated isoflavone of Glycyrrhiza uralensis Fisch. (Leguminosae), and its pharmacological effects have been reported frequently. Typically, flavonoids having multiple hydroxyl groups are unambiguous substrates for glucuronyl conjugation by UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs). The pharmacological effects of flavonoids are derived from the conjugation of glucuronide to yield the bioactive metabolite. Here, the metabolism of licoricidin in pooled human liver microsomes (HLMs) was investigated using high-resolution quadrupole-orbitrap mass spectrometry. One metabolite (M1) was identified in HLMs after incubation with licoricidin in the presence of uridine 5′-diphosphoglucuronic acid (UDPGA) and NADPH. The structure of M1 was determined as a monoglucuronyl licoricidin, which was selectively produced by UGT1A9. Licoricidin showed a higher metabolic ratio and rapid metabolism with the recombinant human UGT1A9 than mycophenolic acid, a well-known UGT1A9 substrate. In conclusion, the selective formation of 7-glucuronyl licoricidin by UGT1A9 in HLMs could serve as a new selective substrate to determine the activity of UGT1A9 in vitro.
Detection of talcum powder content in wheat flour by near infrared spectroscopy based on multilevel feature selection. In this study, the near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) technology was used to quantitatively detect talcum powder in 82 wheat flour samples. Based on anomaly detection, sample division, and spectral preprocessing, four models were established to predict the content of talcum powder in wheat flour. Among them, the performance of Bayesian ridge regression (BRR) combined with second derivative (2D) was proved to be the best. In addition, 46 effective features were selected using a multilevel feature method combining improved particle swarm optimization (PSO) and genetic algorithm (GA). At this time, the coefficient of determination (R2_PRE), root mean square error of prediction (RMSEP), and relative percent difference (RPD) values of the BRR model on the prediction set reached 0.9802, 0.8914, and 6.9263. The results showed that NIRS technology was feasible in detecting the content of talcum powder in wheat flour. At the same time, the effectiveness of multilevel method was better than that of single-level method, and the performance of improved POS was better than that of PSO.
Why are genetic algorithms MCMC? (Markov chain Monte Carlo). Genetic algorithms are considered. Three proposed algorithms are presented to obtain purely empirical analysis conclusions in order to turn to purely theoretical analysis results about the behavior of genetic algorithms as Markov chains, which confirm the conjectures from these experiments and in order to introduce a complete framework toward a new philosophy of two MCMC methods and of statistical inference method about Markov chains. First, we model genetic algorithms using Markov chains. Second, we carry on a particle analysis and analyze the convergence properties of these algorithms. Third, we propose the unified Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) theorem and unique chromosomes method for a purely successful optimization of these algorithms.
Emergence and properties of fluoroquinolone resistant salmonella enterica serovar Typhi strains isolated from Nepal in 2002 and 2003. A total of 171 Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi strains isolated from Nepal, mostly from patients with typhoid fever in 2002-2003, were tested for antimicrobial susceptibility by disk diffusion assay. Selected S. enterica serovar Typhi isolates were tested for MICs by E-test for ceftriaxone, ciprofloxacin and ofloxacin. Mutations of DNA gyrase gyrA and gyrB and topoisomerase IV parC and pare were identified by sequencing of PCR amplicons. By disk diffusion assay, 75/171 S. enterica serovar Typhi isolates were resistant to nalidixic acid, ampicillin, choramphenicol, streptomycin, tetracycline, sulfisoxazole, and trimethroprim/ sulfamethoxazoles. Multiple drug resistance to the 7 antimicrobials was most predominant among S. enterica serovar Typhi isolates in this study. Resistance to nalidixic acid was detected in 76/111 and 56/60 of total isolates collected in 2002 and 2003, respectively. Nalidixic acid-resistant isolates in 2002 and 2003 showed MIC range for ciprofloxacin of 0.125-0.250 mg/l. Nalidixic acid-resistant isolates contained point mutations in gyrA and parC but not gyrB and parE. The gyrA mutation of nalidixic acid-resistant isolates obtained in 2002 and 2003 had amino acid substitution at position 83 of Serine→Tyrosine and Serine→Phenylalanine, respectively. Two different mutations of gyrA were detected among nalidixic acidresistant isolates. Thus it is necessary to monitor mutation in DNA topoisomerase associated with increases in quinolones resistance.
Clinical, biochemical and neuroradiological findings in L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. L-2-Hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a rare inborn error of metabolism, marked by a large and persistent increase of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid in urine, blood and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). We present clinical, biochemical and neuroradiological findings of seven Italian patients aged 4-19 years presenting at different stages of the disease. The disorder was characterized by a progressive neurological syndrome with cerebellar and pyramidal signs, mental deterioration, epilepsy and subcortical leukoencephalopathy on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). We observed a good correlation between the severity of the disease and the extent of lesions on MRI. We report the result of the first positive prenatal diagnosis.
Investigating the Concept and Origin of Viruses. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has piqued public interest in the properties, evolution, and emergence of viruses. Here, we discuss how these basic questions have surprisingly remained disputed despite being increasingly within the reach of scientific analysis. We review recent data-driven efforts that shed light into the origin and evolution of viruses and explain factors that resist the widespread acceptance of new views and insights. We propose a new definition of viruses that is not restricted to the presence or absence of any genetic or physical feature, detail a scenario for how viruses likely originated from ancient cells, and explain technical and conceptual biases that limit our understanding of virus evolution. We note that the philosophical aspects of virus evolution also impact the way we might prepare for future outbreaks.
The major inactivating factor in the near earth space environment for T1 coliphage. The survival of dried preparations of T 1 coliphage was studied in flight experiments on board high altitude balloons, rockets and satellites in the stratosphere and in the space environment from 34 to 460 km. Complete inactivation of phage particles was observed. The solar ultra violet (UV) radiation was the major inactivating factor. Laboratory experiments with light sources of various wavelengths, and a flight experiment with optical filters on board a high altitude sounding rocket showed that radiation of wavelengths between 200 and 300 nm was mainly responsible for the inactivation of the phage particles. Shorter wavelengths were effective only when the phage particles were exposed to radiation in a relatively unprotected way. Suitable phage preparations were obtained by culturing the E. coli B host cells either in beef extract, or in a synthetic medium. Under the experimental conditions, no other component of the space environment apart from UV radiation showed a lethal effect on the dried coliphage. (50 references.)
Detection and absolute quantitation of Broad bean wilt virus 1 (BBWV-1) and BBWV-2 by real time RT-PCR. Broad bean wilt virus 1 (BBWV-1) and BBWV-2 are the two most significant viruses in the genus Fabavirus, causing damage to many economically important agricultural crops worldwide. A quantitative real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) procedure using two TaqMan ®MGB probes was developed for sensitive and specific detection and quantitation of BBWV-1 and BBWV-2. Primers and probes were designed from conserved sequence stretches to detect all isolates of each virus. Standard curves using RNA transcripts identical to both TaqMan ®MGB probes enabled absolute quantitation, with a wide dynamic range and high sensitivity (10 3-10 10 RNA molecules). RT-qPCR was assayed with genetically divergent BBWV-1 and BBWV-2 isolates from different plant hosts and countries, and was used to evaluate the temporal accumulation of BBWV-1 RNA in two plant hosts.
Focus on psychosis. The concept of psychosis has been shaped by traditions in the concepts of mental disorders during the last 170 years. The term "psychosis" still lacks a unified definition, but denotes a clinical construct composed of several symptoms. Delusions, hallucinations, and thought disorders are the core clinical features. The search for a common denominator of psychotic symptoms points toward combinations of neuropsychological mechanisms resulting in reality distortion. To advance the elucidation of the causes and the pathophysiology of the symptoms of psychosis, a deconstruction of the term into its component symptoms is therefore warranted. Current research is dealing with the delineation from "normality," the genetic underpinnings, and the causes and pathophysiology of the symptoms of psychosis.
Virulotyping and genetic diversity of Aeromonas hydrophila isolated from Nile tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus) in aquaculture farms in Egypt. This study focused on the genotyping of Aeromonas hydrophila isolated from diseased Nile tilapia, virulence genes, and their relation with motile aeromonad septicemia (MAS) clinical signs, and the resistance profiles of the recovered isolates to the frequently used antimicrobials in aquaculture. We determined the prevalence of A. hydrophila and the associated mortality in fish in various farms. We also investigated the extent of homogeneity of isolates sampled from various aquaculture farms and fish organs and how these variables would drive A. hydrophila heterogeneity to help developing control strategies against this infection. Of the 41 (41%) A. hydrophila isolates recovered by culture from diseased fish in four aquaculture fish farms (faced 35–50% mortality rates) located at different geographical regions in Egypt, 39 (39%) were confirmed by 16S rDNA-PCR amplification. Five distinct patterns were found for the distribution of virulence genes among 41% of A. hydrophila isolates. Thirteen isolates (33.33%) were positive for aer gene; 9 (23.1%) harbored lip gene, 2 (5.13%) carried hlyA gene, and one isolate (2.56%) was positive for ast gene. A positive correlation was found between hlyA and ast, and between lip and aer genes (r = 0.6 and 0.5, respectively). All isolates were resistant to ampicillin and amoxicillin. The least resistance was noted for doxycycline and gentamicin (7.7%) followed by streptomycin (10.3%), trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (17.9%), chloramphenicol (25.6%), colistin (43.6%), and erythromycin (47.7%). Most isolates were susceptible to ciprofloxacin. Multiple antimicrobial resistance index values ranged from 0·2–0·6 among multidrug-resistant (MDR) isolates (87·2%). Enterobacterial repetitive intergenic consensus (ERIC)-PCR allowed differentiating A. hydrophila isolates into 3 ERIC clusters, each contained isolates belonging to different farms and organs. The fingerprinting profiles of isolates were diverse without any obvious regional or organ-specific isolates. Our results indicated that sampling localities and sampled organs differ, albeit none substantially, in terms of the respective isolates heterogeneity. In conclusion, the high prevalence of A. hydrophila in Nile tilapia and its diverse antimicrobial resistance and virulence profile suggest the increased risk of this infection and raise concerns about its public health importance. The prudent use of antibiotics in the fish industry is now becoming mandatory to avoid the great losses in aquaculture due to MDR A. hydrophila. Our study also indicated the importance of ERIC genotyping for the analysis of A. hydrophila diversity during future molecular epidemiology investigations.
Cross-sectional study on the association between frailty and violence against community-dwelling elderly people in Brazil. BACKGROUND: The physical, emotional and cognitive limitations that may be present in the aging process, coupled with family unpreparedness, may lead to greater dependence among the elderly. This favors development of frailty syndrome and greater levels of violence against the elderly. The objective here was to analyze the association between violence against the elderly and frailty; and the geographic distribution of violence against the elderly according to the presence of frailty syndrome. DESIGN AND SETTING: Cross-sectional study on 705 community-dwelling elderly people in Uberaba (MG), Brazil. METHODS: The Fried frailty phenotype and conflict tactics scale were used. Data were analyzed using descriptive statistics, the chi-square test and a logistic regression model. The intensity of the events and the relationship between clusters of violence and frailty status were assessed by means of kernel estimation. RESULTS: The adjusted analysis indicated that pre-frailty and frailty were associated with physical and verbal aggression (odds ratio, OR = 1.51; 95% confidence interval, CI: 1.04-2.19; OR = 2.12; 95% CI: 1.29-3.47), frailty was associated with physical aggression (OR = 2.48; 95% CI: 1.25-4.94) and pre-frailty and frailty were associated with verbal aggression (OR = 1.48; 95% CI: 1.03-2.15; OR = 2.15; 95% CI: 1.31-3.52), respectively. Regardless of frailty status and its relationship with violence, clusters of occurrences were larger in similar regions in the southeastern part of the municipality; but superimposition of overlays relating to aggression showed that for frail individuals the clusters were smaller than for non-frail and pre-frail individuals. CONCLUSIONS: The condition of frailty was associated with greater chances of violence against the elderly.
Bogotá meeting on plant genetic resources. To prepare for the Fourth International Technical Conference on Plant Genetic Resources, the FAO scheduled several sub-regional and regional meetings worldwide. For Latin America and the Caribbean, two sub-regional meetings were organized in 1995 as a preparation for the Regional Meeting for Latin America and the Caribbean held in Santafé de Bogota, Colombia on March 18-22, 1996.
Estimation of the economic value of herd-life length based on simulated changes in survival rate. Functional traits are an important aspect of long-term breeding strategies for dairy cattle. In this regard, it is necessary to develop simple methods for estimating the economic value of herd life. In this study, the economic daily value of herd life was estimated when survival rate varied between −0.05 and 0.05 from the basal survival rate. The extension days per survival rate were 26.5 days in Hokkaido and 20.3 days in other regions. The increases in values of annual income per day of herd life were 95.18 yen in Hokkaido and 101.80 yen in other regions. The relative economic weights of milk yield to herd life per genetic standard deviation were 0.668 in Hokkaido and 1.03 in other regions. Estimated increments in yearly profits based on young sire selection for herd life were 963 yen in Hokkaido and 1,030 yen in other regions. The estimated increments in annual profits based on young sire selection for milk yield were 1,268 yen in Hokkaido and 2,097 yen in other regions. Given that economic value was linearly correlated with herd-life length, the linear regression coefficients between these factors could be used to estimate the economic value of herd-life length.
Comparative study of 12 pineapple leaf fiber varieties for use as mechanical reinforcement in polymer composites. Vegetable fiber reinforced polymer composites have enormous potential to replace materials originated from non-renewable resources. For an adequate use of vegetable fibers as reinforcements, however, the relationships between technological properties and chemical, structural and morphological characteristics of the fibers must be fully understood. In this work, fibers from 12 different varieties of pineapple ( Ananas genus) were characterized on their morphology, structure, chemical composition, mechanical and thermal properties. The elastic modulus ranged from 37 to 86. GPa, the tensile strength from 629 to 1309. MPa, and the onset oxidation temperature from 240 to 272. °C; indicating the potential of using all selected pineapple fibers as reinforcing fillers (depending on the polymer matrix and processing method). Direct correlations were observed between the thermo-mechanical properties of the fibers and their chemical features, such as holocellulose and cellulose contents, and also the cellulose crystallinity index. The mechanical properties showed an inversely proportional relation with the lignin content and diameter of the fiber bundle. These correlations provided indexes for the direct selection and/or for a genetic improvement program of the Ananas genus for the development of pineapples whose fibers may be adequate as mechanical reinforcement in polymer composite. An example of methodology is presented, aiming to help with materials selection within the group of vegetable fibers used in composites.
Increasing the thermal stability of the water-soluble pyrroloquinoline quinone glucose dehydrogenase by single amino acid replacement. Based on the characterization of a PCR mutation of water-soluble glucose dehydrogenase possessing pyrroloquinoline quinone (PQQ), PQQGDH-B, Ser231Cys, we have constructed a series of Ser231 variants. The replacement of Ser231 to Cys, Met, Leu, Asp, Asn, His, or Lys resulted in an increase in thermal stability. Among these variants, Ser231Lys showed the highest level of thermal stability and also showed high catalytic activity. Considering that Ser231Lys showed more than an 8-fold increase in its half-life during the thermal inactivation at 55°C compared with the wild-type enzyme, and also retained catalytic activity similar to a wild-type enzyme, the application of this mutant enzyme as a glucose sensor constituent may develop into a stable glucose sensor construction.
Cloning in a plasmid of an MMTV from a wild Chinese mouse: sequencing of the viral LTR. Plasmid subcloning by conventional techniques of full length exogenous mouse mammary tumor viruses (MMTV) has not been realized because of the involvement of host-mediated structural changes in the viral gag gene. To circumvent this problem, an alternative subcloning method, excision of phagemid (pBluescript SK) from lambda ZAP II, was successfully used to subclone a novel exogenous MMTV (JYG-MMTV) provirus fragment containing an intact gag gene. Sequence analysis revealed that the LTR of this virus is significantly different from the LTR of C3H-MMTV in the U3 region.
The complete plastid genome sequence of Abies koreana (Pinaceae: Abietoideae). The nucleotide sequence of the chloroplast genome from Abies koreana is the first to have complete genome sequence from genus Abies of family Pinaceae. The circular double-stranded DNA, which consists of 121,373 base pairs (bp), contains a pair of very short inverted repeat regions (IRa and IRb) of 264 bp each, which are separated by a small and large single-copy regions (SSC and LSC) of 54,197 and 66,648 bp, respectively. The genome contents of 114 genes (68 peptide-encoding genes, 35 tRNA genes, four rRNA genes, six open reading frames and one pseudogene) are similar to the chloroplast DNA of other species of Abietoideae. Loss of ndh genes was also identified in the genome of A. koreana like other genomes in the family Pinaceae. Thirteen genes contain one (11 genes) or two (rps12 and ycf3 genes) introns. In phylogenetic analysis, the tree confirms that Abies, Keteleeria and Cedrus are strongly supported as monophyletic. Other inverted repeat sequences located in 42-kb inversion points (1186 bp) include trnS-psaM-ycf12- ψrnG genes.
Synthesis of isomorphic vonsenite-ludwigite series. Three intermediate members of the vonsenite (Fe2FeBO 5) - ludwigite (Mg2FeBO5) isomorphic series were synthesized at a constant reaction time of 72 hours in various hydrothermal conditions: temperature, 450-700 °C; pressure 500-1000 bar. The starting material and run products were characterized by X-ray powder diffraction (XRPD) and scanning electron microscopy with an energy-dispersive spectrometer (SEM-EDS). Compounds of the isomorphic series were obtained at high temperatures (> 500 °C), at lower temperatures the reactions were only partially completed, resulting in the formation of magnesioferrite and suanite. Structural changes observed in synthetic samples suggest that variations m natural samples are not only related to the presence of various ions replacing Mg and Fe, but also, and mainly, to pressure and temperature variations in the genetic environment during crystallization.
Rapid isolation of fungal genomic DNA suitable for long distance PCR. A quick and reliable method for screening fungal transformants for specific genetic modifications is essential for many molecular applications. We have compared the applicability of a few rapid DNA extraction methods for Myrothecium and Aspergillus and tested the resulting DNA as to its suitability for PCR. For Myrothecium gramineum, the highest DNA concentration was obtained with the procedure described by N. Vanittanakom  (J Clin Microbiol 2002, 40: 1739-1742). For A. nidulans, concentrations higher than 100 ng/μl were reached with the glass bead, the LiCl, the boiling, the liquid N2 and the protoplast-based method. Samples of M. gramineum resulting from the boiling and the liquid N2 procedure were suitable for the amplification of fragments up to 2.3 kb. The direct use of mycelium from M. gramineum in the PCR tube can be employed for the reproducible amplification of fragments up to 1 kb. Amplification of fragments up to 4.3 kb requires the use of the Elongase Mix on samples extracted with the liquid N2 procedure.
A perspective on the development of plant-made vaccines in the fight against ebola virus. The Ebola virus (EBOV) epidemic indicated a great need for prophylactic and therapeutic strategies. The use of plants for the production of biopharmaceuticals is a concept being adopted by the pharmaceutical industry, with an enzyme for human use currently commercialized since 2012 and some plant-based vaccines close to being commercialized. Although plant-based antibodies against EBOV are under clinical evaluation, the development of plant-based vaccines against EBOV essentially remains an unexplored area. The current technologies for the production of plant-based vaccines include stable nuclear expression, transient expression mediated by viral vectors, and chloroplast expression. Specific perspectives on how these technologies can be applied for developing anti-EBOV vaccines are provided, including possibilities for the design of immunogens as well as the potential of the distinct expression modalities to produce the most relevant EBOV antigens in plants considering yields, posttranslational modifications, production time, and downstream processing.
Targeting an Artificial Metal Nuclease to DNA by a Simple Chemical Modification and Its Drastic Effect on Catalysis. A novel metal complex was synthesized containing a purine derived ligand in order to increase its binding to DNA. We observed a huge increase in nuclease activity and, quite interestingly, an improvement on DNA sequence selectivity. A potential site of specific cleavage in the presence of a reductant in the reaction medium is suggested. We were able to synthesize a novel metal nuclease with improved activity on DNA, and with sequence specificity when exposed to a coreactant, this opens up new possibilities to create site specific and redox status modulated artificial nucleases.
Bio-economicity of the finishing phase on feedlot of crossbred young bulls slaughtered at different body weights. The objective in this work was to evaluate the economicity of the finishing phase on feedlot of F1 Red Angus × Nellore (1/2 RA 1/2 N) and Blond D'Aquitaine × Nellore (1/2 BA 1/2 N) crossbred young bulls slaughtered at 480, 520 and 560 kg of body weight. Thirty-six F1 crossbred young bull with 20 months of initial average age: 18 1/2RA1/2 N and 18 1/2N1/2 BA were allotted to a completely randomized design in a 2 × 3 factorial arrangement (genetic group × slaughter weight), with six replicates. The 1/2 BA 1/2 N young bulls slaughtered at 480 kg had the highest carcass gain (kg/day), feed efficiency, gross income (R$/day), gross profit of feed (R$/day), break-even cost of the diet (@/t DM) and cost:benefit ratio. The 1/2 BA 1/2 N young bulls also had higher dressing percentage than 1/2 RA 1/2 N young bulls. As the slaughter weight rised the dressing percentage, feed:gain ratio, feed cost (R$/@ and R$/day) and break-even point (kg/day) increased; while the gross feed profit (R$/@) decreased. The bioeconomic multivariate nutritional index had better association with the profitability of the finishing phase of beef cattle on feedlot. Sensitivity analysis did not influence the results obtained. The benefit was lower than the feed cost from exchange relation of four (4) @/t DM of the diet. F1 Blond D'Aquitaine × Nellore crossbred young bulls slaughtered at 480 kg of body weight showed the best bioeconomic efficiency.
Evaluation of birth and weaning traits of Romosinuano calves as purebreds and crosses with Brahman and Angus. The objectives of this work were to evaluate birth and weaning traits, to estimate genetic effects, including heterosis and direct and maternal breed effects, and to evaluate calving difficulty, calf vigor at birth, and calf mortality of Romosinuano as purebreds and as crosses with Brahman and Angus. Calves (n = 1,348) were spring-born from 2002 through 2005 and weaned in the fall of each year at about 7 mo of age. Traits evaluated included birth and weaning weight, ADG, BCS, and weaning hip height. Models used to analyze these traits included the fixed effects of year, sire and dam breeds, management unit, calf sex, cow age, and source of Angus sire (within or outside of the research herd). Calf age in days was investigated as a covariate for weaning traits. Sire within sire breed and dam within dam breed were random effects. Estimates of Romosinuano-Brahman and Romosinuano-Angus heterosis (P < 0.05) were 2.6 ± 0.3 (8.6%) and 1.4 ± 0.3 kg (4.7%) for birth weight, 20.5 ± 1.5 (9.5%) and 14.6 ± 1.4 kg (7.4%) for weaning weight, 79.2 ± 6.1 (9.8%) and 55.1 ± 6.0 g (7.5%) for ADG, 0.16 ± 0.03 (2.7%) and 0.07 ± 0.03 (1.2%) for BCS, and 2.77 ± 0.32 cm (2.4%) and 1.87 ± 0.32 cm (1.7%) for hip height. Heterosis for Brahman-Angus was greater (P < 0.05) than all Romosinuano estimates except those for Romosinuano-Brahman and Romosinuano-Angus BCS. Romosinuano direct effects were negative and lowest of the breeds, except for the Angus estimate for hip height. Romosinuano maternal effects were the largest of the 3 breeds for birth weight and hip height but intermediate to the other breeds for weaning weight and ADG. A large proportion of Brahman-sired calves from Angus dams (0.09 ± 0.03; n = 11) was born in difficult births and died before 4 d of age. Brahman and Angus purebreds and Romosinuano-sired calves from Brahman dams also had large proportions of calves that died before weaning (0.09 or greater). Results indicated that Romosinuano may be used as a source of adaptation to subtropical environments and still incorporate substantial crossbred advantage for weaning traits, although not to the extent of crosses of Brahman and Angus.
Variability, heritability and character association studies for growth and seed yield in jatropha curcas crosses. The present study was conducted on intraspecific crosses of Jatropha developed by using ten parents at Central Agroforestry Research Institute, Jhansi to evaluate variability, heritability and genetic advance of growth and seed yield traits. Study revealed that all the crosses differed significantly in growth and seed yield traits. The 100 seed weight varied from 49.8 g (NRCJ-35) to 61 g (NRCJ-26) whereas seed yield ranged from 177.5 g (NRCJ-30) to 733g (NRCJ-15). The genotypic and phenotypic coefficient of variation of 100 seed weight was 3.37 and 10.92, respectively whereas heritability (30.86%) and genetic advance as per cent of mean was moderate (3.73%). The genotypic and phenotypic coefficient of variation of seed yield was 8.42 and 21.61, along with 38.96 per cent heritability and 65.81 per cent genetic advance. The study indicates that the variation found in different traits can be effectively utilized in genetic improvement of this species and good performing crosses can be utilized for large plantation under biofuel development programme.
Surfactin: Biosynthesis, genetics and potential applications. Even after forty years of its discovery by Arima , surfactin, a potent lipopeptide biosurfactant, still attracts attention and fancy of the applied microbiologists and biotechnologists worldwide, mainly due to its versatile bioactive properties and potential industrial implications. Starting from its first invented characteristic as an inhibitor of fibrin clot formation coupled with its significant ability to reduce surface tension of water, it has been credited with antifungal, antiviral, antitumor, insecticidal and antimycoplasma activities. These properties of therapeutic and commercial importance and its recent use as an enhanced oil recovery and a bioremediation agent make it a truly versatile biomolecule, the commercial potential of which could not be fully realized, particularly as a therapeutic agent, mainly because of its hemolytic property. This chapter thus addresses the issues related to the versatile nature of the most studied microbial surfactant, surfactin and its potential commercial and health-care applications.
Tail docking and ear cropping dogs: Public awareness and perceptions. Tail docking and ear cropping are two surgical procedures commonly performed on many dog breeds. These procedures are classified as medically unnecessary surgeries whose purpose is primarily cosmetic. Available attitude research surrounding these controversial practices has been limited to surveys of veterinarians and dog breeders familiar with both practices. The aim of this project was to: 1) assess public awareness of tail docking and ear cropping, 2) determine whether physical alteration of a dog affects how the dog, and 3) owner are perceived. In Experiment 1 awareness was measured using a combination of both explicit and implicit measures. We found that 42% of participants (n = 810) were unable to correctly explain the reason why tail docked and ear cropped dogs had short ears and tails. Similarly, an implicit measure of awareness ('nature vs nurture task'), found that the majority of participants believed short tails and erect ears were a consequence of genetics rather than something the owner or breeder had done. The results obtained in Experiment 2 (n = 392) provide evidence that ear cropped and tail docked dogs are perceived differently than an identical dog in its 'natural' state. Modified dogs were perceived as being more aggressive, more dominant, less playful and less attractive than natural dogs. Experiment 3 (n = 410) is the first evidence that owners of modified dogs are perceived as being more aggressive, more narcissistic, less playful, less talkative and less warm compared to owners of natural dogs. Taken together, these results suggest that although a significant proportion of subjects appear unaware of the practices of tail docking and ear cropping in dogs, these procedures have significant impacts on how modified dogs and their owners are perceived by others.
Estimates of genetic parameters for Canadian Holstein female reproduction traits. Age at first insemination, days from calving to first insemination, number of services, first-service nonreturn rate to 56 d, days from first service to conception, calving ease, stillbirth, gestation length, and calf size of Canadian Holstein cows were jointly analyzed in a linear multiple-trait model. Traits covered a wide spectrum of aspects related to reproductive performance of dairy cows. Other frequently used fertility characteristics, like days open or calving intervals, could easily be derived from the analyzed traits. Data included 94,250 records in parities 1 to 6 on 53,158 cows from Ontario and Quebec, born in the years 1997 to 2002. Reproductive characteristics of heifers and cows were treated as different but genetically correlated traits that gave 16 total traits in the analysis. Repeated records for later parities were modeled with permanent environmental effects. Direct and maternal genetic effects were included in linear models for traits related to calving performance. Bayesian methods with Gibbs sampling were used to estimate covariance components of the model and respective genetic parameters. Estimates of heritabilities for fertility traits were low, from 3% for nonreturn rate in heifers to 13% for age at first service. Interval traits had higher heritabilities than binary or categorical traits. Service sire, sire of calf, and artificial insemination technician were important (relative to additive genetic) sources of variation for nonreturn rate and traits related to calving performance. Fertility traits in heifers and older cows were not the same genetically (genetic correlations in general were smaller than 0.9). Genetic correlations (both direct and maternal) among traits indicated that different traits measured different aspects of reproduc-tive performance of a dairy cow. These traits could be used jointly in a fertility index to allow for selection for better fertility of dairy cattle.
Applicability of radiosurgery with heavy ion beams to inactivate specific organs in living organisms. It was the aim of the study to test the applicability of radiosurgery in inactivating a specific organ through local irradiation with heavy ion beams. Silkworms were exposed to whole-body or local irradiation with carbon ion beams (12C5+, 18.3 MeV/u, range= 1.1 mm). After irradiation at the wandering stage, no significant differences were observed regarding either survival or cocoon quality between locally irradiated larvae and controls. Only localized effects were seen, such as the deletion of wings and functional disorders of the reproduction primordium, depending on both irradiation dose and site. This observation was not true for whole-body irradiated larvae. After local irradiation of the hemopoietic organs at the 4th instar premolting stage, the hemocyte densities were clearly reduced and the hemopoietic organ capacity was disrupted. The change in hemocyte densities was accompanied by changes of hemolymph components. These results show that radiosurgery utilizing heavy ion beams can destroy a specific organ or tissue in a living organism.
Multigenerational exposure to silver ions and silver nanoparticles reveals heightened sensitivity and epigenetic memory in Caenorhabditis elegans. The effects from multigenerational exposures to engineered nanoparticles (ENPs) in their pristine and transformed states are currently unknown despite such exposures being an increasingly common scenario in natural environments. Here, we examine how exposure over 10 generations affects the sensitivity of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans to pristine and sulfidized Ag ENPs and AgNO3. We also include populations that were initially exposed over six generations but kept unexposed for subsequent four generations to allow recovery from exposure. Toxicity of the different silver forms decreased in the order AgNO3, Ag ENPs and Ag2S ENPs. Continuous exposure to Ag ENPs and AgNO3 caused pronounced sensitization (approx. 10-fold) in the F2 generation, which was sustained until F10. This sensitization was less pronounced for Ag2S ENP exposures, indicating different toxicity mechanisms. Subtle changes in size and lifespan were also measured. In the recovery populations, the sensitivity to Ag ENPs and AgNO3 resulting from the initial multigenerational exposure persisted. Their response sensitivity for all endpoints was most closely related to the last ancestral exposed generation (F5), rather than unexposed controls. The mechanisms of transgenerational transfer of sensitivity are probably organized through the epigenome, and we encourage others to investigate such effects as a priority for mechanistic toxicology.
Galaxy CloudMan: Delivering cloud compute clusters. Background: Widespread adoption of high-throughput sequencing has greatly increased the scale and sophistication of computational infrastructure needed to perform genomic research. An alternative to building and maintaining local infrastructure is " cloud computing" , which, in principle, offers on demand access to flexible computational infrastructure. However, cloud computing resources are not yet suitable for immediate " as is" use by experimental biologists.Results: We present a cloud resource management system that makes it possible for individual researchers to compose and control an arbitrarily sized compute cluster on Amazon's EC2 cloud infrastructure without any informatics requirements. Within this system, an entire suite of biological tools packaged by the NERC Bio-Linux team () is available for immediate consumption. The provided solution makes it possible, using only a web browser, to create a completely configured compute cluster ready to perform analysis in less than five minutes. Moreover, we provide an automated method for building custom deployments of cloud resources. This approach promotes reproducibility of results and, if desired, allows individuals and labs to add or customize an otherwise available cloud system to better meet their needs.Conclusions: The expected knowledge and associated effort with deploying a compute cluster in the Amazon EC2 cloud is not trivial. The solution presented in this paper eliminates these barriers, making it possible for researchers to deploy exactly the amount of computing power they need, combined with a wealth of existing analysis software, to handle the ongoing data deluge.
Semolina speck counting using an automated imaging system. An objective instrumental method for counting specks in semolina has been developed. The method involves making pellets from semolina and detecting specks using a computerized image analysis (IA) system. The IA method for speck counting has been compared to visual counting of the pellets by three experienced technicians and to the visual counting of the original semolina using the standard Grain Research Laboratory (GRL) procedure. For a linear range of speck counts created by blending semolina samples, a linear response was obtained by the IA method. The robustness of the developed IA method was tested using semolina milled from a diverse range of plant breeders samples. Eight of these samples were used to test the influence of speck size and darkness on the count levels. The inclusion of smaller specks in the count method increased the count levels, while excluding lighter specks reduced the speck count. The IA method has proven reliable over a wide range of samples representing diverse genotypes and environments. It can be set for specific speck size and darkness, allowing calibration to relate directly to results by traditional visual counting. The semolina pellets may be stored for a long period, providing a permanent record of each sample, and allowing for standardization of speck counts over time.
EHV-1 and EHV-4 infection in vaccinated mares and their foals. A silent cycle of equine herpesvirus 1 infection was described following epidemiological studies of unvaccinated mares and foals on a Hunter Valley stud farm. Following the introduction of routine vaccination with an inactivated whole virus equine herpesvirus 1 (EHV-1) and equine herpesvirus 4 (EHV-4) vaccine in 1997, a subsequent study identified excretion of EHV-1 and EHV-4 in nasal swab samples tested by PCR from vaccinated mares and their unweaned, unvaccinated foals. The current sero-epidemiological investigation of vaccinated mares and their young foals found serological evidence of EHV-1 and EHV-4 infection in mares and foals in the first 5 weeks of life. The results further support that EHV-1 and EHV-4 circulate in vaccinated populations of mares and their unweaned foals and confirms the continuation of the cycle of EHV-1 and EHV-4 infection.
From behavioural economics to neuroeconomics to decision neuroscience: The ascent of biology in research on human decision making. Here, we briefly review the evolution of research on human decision-making over the past few decades. We discern a trend whereby biology moves from subserving economics (neuroeconomics), to providing the data that advance our knowledge of the nature of human decision-making (decision neuroscience). Examples illustrate that the integration of behavioural and biological models is fruitful especially for understanding heterogeneity of choice in humans.
Significant reproductive skew in the facultatively polygynous ant Pheidole pallidula. Reproductive skew - the extent to which reproduction is unevenly shared between individuals in a social group - varies greatly between and within animal species. In this study, we investigated how queens share parentage in polygynous (multiple queen) colonies of the Mediterranean ant Pheidole pallidula. We used highly polymorphic microsatellites markers to determine parentage of gynes (new queens), males and workers in P. pallidula field colonies. The comparison of the genotypes of young and adult workers revealed a very low queen turnover (less than 2%). The first main finding of the study of reproductive skew in these colonies was that there was a significant departure from equal contribution of queens to gyne, male and worker production. Reproductive skew was greater for male production than for queen and worker production. There was no relationship between the magnitude of the reproductive skew and the number of reproductive queens per colony, their relatedness and the overall colony productivity, some of the factors predicted to influence the extent of reproductive skew. Finally, our study revealed for the first time a trade-off in the relative contribution of nestmate queens to gyne and worker production. The queens contributing more to gyne production contributed significantly less to worker production.
Impact of molecular rigidity on the gene delivery efficiency of core-shell tecto dendrimers. We report the construction of two types of core-shell tecto dendrimers (CSTDs) with different core rigidities to illustrate the impact of molecular rigidity on their gene delivery efficiency. Our study reveals that CSTDs designed with rigid cores enable promoted gene delivery, providing many possibilities for a wide range of gene delivery-associated biomedical applications.
Recent Progress in the Design of Hypoxia-Specific Nano Drug Delivery Systems for Cancer Therapy. Hypoxia is a salient feature in many solid tumors and an important player in tumor growth and progression. Increasing evidence suggests hypoxia plays major roles in the angiogenesis, metastasis, and resistance toward conventional cancer therapy treatments such as chemotherapy, radiotherapy, and photodynamic therapy. However, the exact reason that makes hypoxia a problem is also an opportunity for the development of new therapeutic modalities. The low oxygen level and highly reductive environment provide great options for stimuli-sensitive drug release in a highly target-specific manner. The use of nanoparticle-based systems for hypoxia-selective drug delivery is a relatively new but rapidly progressing research area. This report summarizes the recent trends and advances in the development of new hypoxia-specific nanomedicines. The background, the current progress, and what could be done in the future to achieve greater success in cancer therapy are discussed.
The natural history of the news: An epigenetic study. Scholars, editors, and reporters have tended to treat news and journalism as synonymous. This conception has privileged a particular kind of journalism often called the Anglo-American model. This study argues journalism has been a type of news reporting for a relatively brief period. Using the concept of epigenetics, the authors argue that journalism is usefully seen as a coating on the DNA of news, which has existed for centuries. Journalism emerged as a result of special factors. As powerful as the Anglo-American model was, it was never fully realized, nor could it become the regnant model throughout the world. Journalism will carry on, but along with many other types of news, all of which carry coatings from the past.
Impact of energy storage costs on economical performance in a distribution substation. This paper presents a methodology to evaluate the impact of energy storage specific costs on net present value (NPV) of energy storage installations in distribution substations. This work is based on multiple objective optimization. Specific cost effects on economic performance of energy storage technologies are evaluated for an HV/MV substation. For each studied technology, sets of optimal economic operation strategies and capacities of the storage device are determined. Finally, this approach using nondominated sorting genetic algorithms (NSGAs) optimization technique achieves a practical method for load management, including storage in power distribution systems and produces diagrams defining relationship between specific costs and storage project payback.
Characterization of car α, car Lep, and Crt I genes controlling the biosynthesis of carotenes in Mycobacterium aurum. The genes controlling the biosynthesis of carotenes in Mycobacterium aurum responsible for its yellow pigmentation were previously cloned (FEMS Microbiol Lett 1992, 90:239-244). In this study, the genes crt I, car α, and car Lep, controlling respectively the formation of lycopene from phytoene (phytoene desaturase), α-carotene from lycopene, and leprotene from lycopene, were localized.
A case of Dohi presenting with diffuse pigmented patch on both dorsum of hands. Reticulated acropigmentation of Dohi (RAD), dyschromatosis symmetrica hereditaria, is the localized acral form of dyschromatosis universalis hereditaria that has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. RAD is characterized by the mixed hyperpigmented and hypopigmented macules and its bilaterally symmetrical distribution on the back of the hands and feet, wrists, knees, and elbows. The presented case is a 18-year-old female had relatively well demarcated symmetric hyperpigmented and hypopigmented macules and patches on dorsa of hands and feet, forearms, lower legs and face. These pigmentations at first appeared at 3 years old on dorsa of her fingers and toes, thereafter these pigmentations spread progressively to the proximal portion of her body. Her pedigree shows autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. Histologically, there is markedly decreased basal pigmentation with preserved melanocytes. Immunohistochemical stain for the Melan-A revealed both areas of either decreased or increased Melan-A positive melanocytes in basal layer, which suggests that Reticulated acropigmentation of Dohi is a genetic disorder of functional derangement of melanocytes.
Public health–driven research and innovation for next-generation influenza vaccines, European union. Influenza virus infections are a major public health threat. Vaccination is available, but unpredictable antigenic changes in circulating strains require annual modification of seasonal influenza vaccines. Vaccine effectiveness has proven limited, particularly in certain groups, such as the elderly. Moreover, preparedness for upcoming pandemics is challenging because we can predict neither the strain that will cause the next pandemic nor the severity of the pandemic. The European Union fosters research and innovation to develop novel vaccines that evoke broadly protective and long-lasting immune responses against both seasonal and pandemic influenza, underpinned by a political commitment to global public health.
Counting reticulocytes by flow cytometry: use of thiazole orange. Summary Thiazole orange is a new fluorescent dye which will bind to the residual RNA in the cytoplasm of reticulocytes and allow their enumeration by FACS analysis. We have evaluated the use of this dye in the routine haematology laboratory. There is an excellent correlation between manual and FACS reticulocyte counts (r=0.98) but FACS counting showed significantly higher precision (CV = 3.1) than the manual method (CV = 11.9) for single observer, 20.8% for multiple observers). Clinical specimens showed stable reticulocyte counts for 6 h if stored at 4°C allowing efficient batching of samples. There was a significant fall in reticulocyte counts stored for 24 h at both 4°C and 21°C. Evaluation of 78 male and 76 female blood donors by FACS analysis gave normal ranges (mean %×2 SD) of 0.74 × 0.48 and 0.84 × 0.56 respectively (P<0.005). When corrected to absolute values there was no sex difference (36 × 24 × 109/1). Thiazole orange is an effective stain for the automated counting of reticulocytes by FACS analysis.
Prevalence of ‘Candidatus Liberibacter solanacearum’ Haplotypes in Potato Tubers and Psyllid Vectors in Idaho from 2012 to 2018. ‘Candidatus Liberibacter solanacearum’ (Lso) is an uncultured, phloem-associated bacterium causing a severe tuber disease in potato called zebra chip (ZC). Seven haplotypes of Lso have been described in different hosts, with haplotypes A and B found associated with infections in potato and tomato. In the field, Lso is transmitted by the potato psyllid (Bactericera cockerelli), and between 2011 and 2015, a significant change in Lso haplotype prevalence was previously reported in Idaho: from exclusively A haplotype found in tested psyllids in 2012 to mainly B haplotype found in collected psyllids in 2015. However, prevalence of Lso haplotypes in Idaho was not analyzed in potato tubers exhibiting symptoms of ZC. To fill in this knowledge gap, prevalence of Lso haplotypes was investigated in potato tubers harvested in southern Idaho between 2012 and 2018, and it was found to change from exclusively A haplotype in the 2012 season to an almost equal A and B haplotype distribution during the 2016 season. During the same period, haplotype distribution of Lso in psyllid vectors collected using yellow sticky traps also changed, but in psyllids, the shift from A haplotype of Lso to B haplotype was complete, with no A haplotype detected in 2016 to 2018. The changes in the haplotype prevalence of the Lso circulating in potato fields in southern Idaho may be, among other factors, responsible for a decrease in the ZC incidence in Idaho potato fields between an outbreak of the disease in 2012 and a very low level of ZC afterward.
Poly(L-glutamic acid)-anticancer drug conjugates. Chemotherapy has had limited success in the treatment of cancer over the years, due, in part, to the untoward toxicity of the therapeutic agent to normal cells. The design of tailor-made polymer conjugates provides a synthetic approach that can overcome some of the problems. Several synthetic polymer-based anticancer drug conjugates have entered clinical studies. This report reviews the chemistry, physicochemical properties, and therapeutic applications in cancer therapy of polymeric chemotherapeutic agents based on poly(L-glutamic acid). Targeted delivery of anticancer agents using poly(L-glutamic acid) as the drug carrier is also discussed with emphasis on the design of innovative polymeric constructs.
GREEN CROSS-DOCK BASED SUPPLY CHAIN NETWORK DESIGN UNDER DEMAND UNCERTAINTY USING NEW METAHEURISTIC ALGORITHMS. This study concerns the optimization of green supply chain network design under demand uncertainty. The issue of demand uncertainty has been addressed using a scenario-based analysis approach. The main contribution of this research is to investigate the optimization of cross-dock based supply chain under uncertainty using scenario-based formulation and metaheuristic algorithms. The problem has been formulated as a two-objective mathematical model with the objectives of minimizing the costs and minimizing the environmental impact of the supply chain. Two metaheuristic algorithms, namely non-dominated sorting genetic algorithm II (NSGA-II) and multi-objective invasive weed optimization (MOIWO), have been developed to optimize this mathematical model. This paper focuses on the use of new metaheuristic algorithms such as MOIWO in green supply chain network design, which has received less attention in previous studies. The performance of the two solution methods has been evaluated in terms of three indices, which measure the quality, spacing, and diversification of solutions. Evaluations indicate that the developed MOIWO algorithm produces more Pareto solutions and solutions of higher quality than NSGA-II. A performance test carried out with 31 problem instances of different sizes shows that the two methods perform similarly in terms of the spread of solutions on the Pareto front, but MOIWO provides higher quality solutions than NSGA-II.
Introduction: Life writing as intimate publics. This special issue of Biography begins from the US cultural critic Lauren Berlant's term "intimate public" to explore new constituencies of belonging in relation to life writing and life storying across media. Life writing creates affect worlds, where strangers meet through emotional connection, worlds that are economically and politically dynamic. This collection assesses them as global forms, including British televisual genealogy, post-Communist Eastern European memoir, Scottish oral history, Iranian blogging, Chinese sentimental essay, and American genomic dataset. It includes Berlant's response, the first time she has engaged directly with life writing.
The interaction of wheat genotypes with a specific factor of the environment. Several alternative statistical approaches to the analysis of genotype-environment interactions are summarized, and their inter-relationships are presented mathematically and graphically. An experiment was designed to test the ability of these analyses to satisfactorily describe genotype-environment interactions and to locate genotypes causing or contributing significantly to such interactions in a situation where environments differed in only one factor, i.e. soil nitrogen status. Twenty-five lines of wheat were grown at each of 5 levels of applied nitrogen (0270 kg N/ha) in a sandy, nitrogen-deficient soil, and their grain yields and yield components (ears per unit area, grains per ear, weight per grain) were determined. Designating the nitrogen levels as ‘environments’, linear yield responses, and deviations from linear responses, of individual wheat entries to environment mean yield were calculated according to the various statistical procedures previously outlined. The results suggested that the linear response to environment mean yield was similar for all wheat entries. However, further inspection of the data revealed that the responses of eight entries to environment mean yield departed significantly from linearity. Although several analyses satisfactorily identified these aberrant entries, classifying them as ‘unstable’, it was concluded that the degree of departure from linearity of response was not an adequate measure of instability. Furthermore, as previously suggested by Knight (1970), it was confirmed that the relative ranking of an entry for yield stability according to such a concept varied according to the average response of the group of entries with which it was being compared. The general effects of applied nitrogen on yield components were to increase the number of ears and the number of grains per ear, and to decrease grain weight. However, only the first of these effects occurred consistently for all entries. The number and weight of individual grains per ear varied with the nitrogen treatment, often unpredictably, in a complex pattern which differed significantly between entries.
Postoperative metabolic patterns following immediate total nutritional support: Hormone levels, DNA synthesis, nitrogen balance, and accelerated wound healing. Dogs with a standardized bowel resection and efficient exclusion of swallowed air tolerated enteral feedings of an elemental diet at rates sufficient to produce marked positive nitrogen balance within minutes of surgery. Patients with efficient esophagogastric aspiration of swallowed air also have been shown to tolerate immediate enteral feeding of this solution, and enter positive nitrogen balance. Both patients and beagles respond to hyperalimentation with a markedly elevated insulin level. In the dog this is shown to correspond to a marked increase in postoperative oxidative glucose consumption. In the beagles, hyperalimentation was noted to cause increased albumin and globulin synthesis within 24 hr of bowel resection. DNA synthesis in the bowel wound of the fed beagle at 72 hr was 6.2 times that when the subject was not fed. The bursting pressures of the unsupported abdominal wall wound and the still-sutured bowel wound 96 hr postoperatively in the fed beagle were quadruple and triple, respectively, the pressures required for disruption without hyperalimentation. Earlier provision of full nutrition post-operatively may be of clinical benefit, even to the previously well-nourished patient.
Phylogenetic positions of novel aerobic, bacteriochlorophyll a-containing bacteria and description of Roseococcus thiosulfatophilus gen. nov., sp. nov., Erythromicrobium ramosum gen. nov., sp. nov., and Erythrobacter litoralis sp. nov.. We analyzed the 16S ribosomal DNAs of three obligately aerobic, bacteriochlorophyll a-containing bacteria, 'Roseococcus thiosulfatophilus,' 'Erythromicrobium ramosum,' and new isolate T4(T) (T = type strain), which was obtained from a marine cyanobacterial mat. 'Roseococcus thiosulfatophilus' is a member of the α-1 subclass of the Proteobacteria and is moderately related to Rhodopila globiformis, Thiobacillus acidophilus, and Acidiphilium cryptum (level of sequence similarity, 90%). 'Erythromicrobium ramosum' and isolate T4(T) are closely related to Erythrobacter longus and Porphyrobacter neustonensis (level of sequence similarity, 95%). These organisms are members of the α-4 subclass of the Proteobacteria. Strain T4(T) is a motile, red or orange bacterium. The major carotenoids are bacteriorubixanthinal and erythroxanthin sulfate. In vivo measurements revealed bacteriochlorophyll absorption maxima at 377, 590, 800, and 868 nm. Strain T4(T) grows in the presence of 5 to 96% salinity and uses glucose, fructose, acetate, pyruvate, glutamate, succinate, and lactate as substrates. On the basis of its distinct phylogenetic position and phenotypic characteristics which are different from those of Erythrobacter longus, we propose that strain T4(T) should be placed in a new species of the genus Erythrobacter, Erythrobacter litoralis. The descriptions of 'Roseococcus thiosulfatophilus' and 'Erythromicrobium ramosum' are emended.
Integrating contaminant responses in indicator saltmarsh species. A challenge in environmental management is to provide both methodology and a framework for assessing effects of pollutants in resident species and then applying the findings to management. The Pacific Estuarine Ecosystem Indicator Research (PEEIR) consortium advocates the development of an integrated portfolio of techniques using indicator species selected for various habitat types. We developed such a portfolio for California salt marsh ecosystems and evaluated the feasibility of our approach in management applications. PEEIR is employing a suite of biomarker responses in two indigenous species, the lined shore crab (Pachygrapsus crassipes) and the longjaw mudsucker (Gillichthys mirabilis). Detrimental effects such as apoptosis, endocrine disruption, and ovarian tumors have been observed in G. mirabilis at a site where toxicity test responses were relatively low. With P. crassipes, developmental abnormalities and several markers of decreased reproductive performance were quantified at the same site. Multivariate statistical techniques are used to examine the relationships between the responses and multiple contaminant and natural stressors. For the fish, findings are related to population-level parameters using dynamic energy budget (DEB) models.
Antimicrobial packaging to retard the growth of spoilage bacteria and to reduce the release of volatile metabolites in meat stored under vacuum at 1°C. A nisin-EDTA solution was used for activation of the internal surface of plastic bags that were used to store beef chops at 1°C after vacuum packaging. The aim of the work was to evaluate the effect of the antimicrobial packaging on beef during storage. Volatile compounds and microbial populations were monitored after 0, 9, 20, 36, and 46 days of storage. The active packaging retarded the growth of lactic acid bacteria. Brochothrix thermosphacta was unable to grow for the whole storage time in treated samples, while the levels of Carnobacterium spp. in treated samples were below the detection limit for the first 9 days and reached loads below 5 Log CFU/cm2 after 46 days. On the other hand, Enterobacteriaceae and Pseudomonas spp. were not affected by the use of the antimicrobial packaging and grew in all of the samples, with final populations of about 4 Log CFU/cm2. Carnobacterium divergens was identified by PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis analysis of DNA extracted from beef after 36 days of storage. During beef storage, alcohols, aldehydes, ketones, and carboxylic acids were detected in the headspace of beef samples by solid-phase microextraction-gas chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis. The microbial metabolic activity was affected by the use of the antimicrobial film from the beginning up to 36 days with a maximum in the differences of volatile metabolites in samples analyzed at 20 days. The volatiles were also determined by electronic nose, allowing differentiation based on the time of storage and not on the type of packaging. The active packaging reduces the loads of spoilage microbial populations and the release of metabolites in the headspace of beef with a probable positive impact on meat quality.
Young colonization history of a widespread sand dollar (Echinodermata; Clypeasteroida) in western Taiwan. Arachnoides placenta is the most common sand dollar species in western Taiwan. Due to its lack of fossil record, the arrival of this species in Taiwan could not be estimated until now. Fragments of A. placenta was recovered sorting through a 1981- museum collection of sand dollars collected off Mailiao county, western Taiwan. Additional echinoderm specimens were recovered from Holocene sediments nearby, but no fragments of A. placenta were found, indicating a decline in the living population. A total of 11 echinoderm samples, including five specimens that were assigned to A. placenta with certainty, were sent for radiocarbon dating. Results showed that studied echinoderm fragments range from modern (after 1950) to as old as 2680 ± 55 a BP and the oldest date is from A. placenta. It is evident that Taiwan is an active migration front for A. placenta due to the relatively young arrival age for this pandemic species which is widespread in the Indo-West Pacific region. Additionally, the DNA sequence, including the cytochrome c oxidase subunit I (cox1) gene, of the species was obtained to conduct the first molecular phylogenetic study of sand dollars in Taiwan.
Potassium level suitable for screening high magnesium containing grass seedlings under solution culture. There is a continued need for breeding high-Mg grass cultivars with low grass tetany risk. Since interaction between magnesium (Mg) and potassium (K) exists, there is a possibility that genotypes characterized for higher Mg concentration may exhibit contrasting behavior for nutrient uptake with K application. A solution culture experiment was conducted to find a suitable K level for individual selection of high-Mg plants. Three K treatments of 1.0, 5.0, and 25 mM were superimposed. The uptake pattern of Mg, calcium (Ca), and K for approved high-Mg cultivars of Italian ryegrass (Magnet), orchard-grass (Mgwell), and tall fescue (HiMag) were compared with that of control cultivars. The seedlings were evaluated for shoot dry weight, amount of nutrient uptake, and average shoot nutrient concentrations. There was an increase in shoot dry weight grown with higher nutrient solution K levels. The effect of K on the trend of Mg uptake was paralleled among the high-Mg cultivars of the three species. The high-Mg cultivars showed higher Mg uptake and average shoot Mg concentrations than the control cultivars. Potassium uptake and average shoot K concentrations of high-Mg cultivars was always lower than the control cultivars. The greatest difference between the controls and high-Mg plants for average shoot Mg and K concentrations was observed in the plants grown under 5.0 mM level of K. This indicates the effectiveness of screening high-Mg grass seedlings using 5.0 mM level of K under solution culture condition. Methodology introduced in this experiment is aimed at expediting the term necessary for screening high-Mg plants.
High levels of virological failure with major genotypic resistance mutations in HIV-1-infected children after 5 years of care according to WHO-recommended 1st-line and 2nd-line antiretroviral regimens in the Central African Republic. A large cohort of 220 HIV-1-infected children (median [range] age: 12 [4-17] years) was cared and followed up in the Central African Republic, including 198 in 1st-line and 22 in 2nd-line antiretroviral regimens. Patients were monitored clinically and biologically for HIV-1 RNA load and drug resistance mutations (DRMs) genotyping. A total of 87 (40%) study children were virological responders and 133 (60%) nonresponders. In children with detectable viral load, the majority (129; 97%) represented a virological failure. In children receiving 1st-line regimens in virological failure for whom genotypic resistance test was available, 45% displayed viruses harboring at least 1 DRM to NNRTI or NRTI, and 26% showed at least 1 major DRM to NNRTI or NRTI; more than half of children in 1st-line regimens were resistant to 1st-generation NNRTI and 24% of the children in 1st-line regimens had a major DRMs to PI. Virological failure and selection of DRMs were both associated with poor adherence. These observations demonstrate high rate of virological failure after 3 to 5 years of 1st-line or 2nd-line antiretroviral treatment, which is generally associated with DRMs and therapeutic failure. Overall, more than half (55%) of children receiving 1st-line antiretroviral treatment for a median of 3.4 years showed virological failure and antiretroviral-resistance and thus eligible to 2nd-line treatment. Furthermore, two-third (64%) of children under 2nd-line therapy were eligible to 3rd-line regimen. Taken together, these observations point the necessity to monitor antiretroviral-treated children by plasma HIV-1 RNA load to diagnose as early as possible the therapeutic failure and operate switch to a new therapeutic line.
In vivo repair of the 3′ terminus of transfer RNA injected into amphibian oocytes. Yeast transfer RNA specific for phenylalanine has been treated chemically to remove either one or two nucleotides of its 3′ terminus and has been injected into Xenopus laevis oocytes to test whether this RNA can be repaired in vivo. The results obtained showed that oocytes could aminoacylate and thus repair tRNAPhe that has lost both its terminal adenosine and 3′ phosphate. A similar result was obtained with tRNAphe that had undergone two full cycles of 3′ terminal nucleotide removal. The oocytes cannot aminoacylate tRNAPne whose 3′ terminal ribose has been oxidized with periodate or the derivative that retains a 3′ phosphate after adenosine removal. In vitro assays show that the Xenopus ovary contains a tRNA nucleotidyl transferase with the properties similar to enzymes obtained from other sources which may be responsible for the 3′ terminal repair observed in vivo.
Clinical experience. Efficacy and treatment duration of abacavir and lamivudine. The efficacy of the association of abacavir/lamivudine as a pair of nucleoside analogues (NA) in initial antiretroviral therapy (ART) is analyzed. Data from randomized clinical trials evaluating the efficacy of this combination associated with a protease inhibitor or non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor in treatment-naïve patients is evaluated. Studies evaluating the association of lamivudine/abacavir with zidovudine in treatment-naïve patients or simplification regimens were excluded. The efficacy of abacavir + lamivudine (HIV-RNA lower than 50 copies/ml, intention-to-treat analysis: losses = failures) in studies that used this combination to evaluate the efficacy of a third antiretroviral drug (SOLO, NEAT, ESS 30009, CLASS) oscillated between 41% and 76.5%, depending on the third component of the ART (fosamprenavir/ritonavir 55-62%, nelfinavir 41-52%, stavudine 59%, efavirenz 71-76%). We also analyzed the results of three studies (Zodiac, ABCDE and CNA 30024) that compared the efficacy of the lamivudine + abacavir combination with that of other NA combinations, using a third fixed drug (efavirenz in the 3 studies), including one study that compared the efficacy of lamivudine + abacavir administered once or twice daily. Once daily administration was as effective as twice daily administration (66% versus 68%). Abacavir + lamivudine was not inferior to zidovudine + lamivudine (70% versus 69%) or stavudine + lamivudine (82% versus 76%). In summary, the combination of lamivudine + abacavir as part of ART is effective and well tolerated and achieves a lasting virological response. Its efficacy is comparable to that of other associations of NAs with proven efficacy such as zidovudine + lamivudine and stavudine + lamivudine. The combined formulation of abacavir/lamivudine provides the additional advantage of allowing the use of easily administered regimens, which could facilitate treatment adherence and hence maintenance of treatment response.
Tryptophan synthetase α(5.7-S): novel molecular species formed within Escherichia coli. A novel molecular species contributes about 5% of the total tryptophan synthetase of E. coli derepressed for the trp operon enzymes. The new species is identified under conditions in which the dissociation of the two nonidentical subunits of the tryptophan synthetase complex is favored. The new species sediments at 5.7S, catalyzes the conversion of indole 3 glycerol phosphate to indole, and has been designated α(5.7 S). Although α(5.7 S) ia not observed in extracts of trpA or trpB mutant strains deficient in the ability to form tryptophan synthetase α or β2 subunits, respectively, a mixture of the two extracts allows the formation of α(5.7 S). Similar results are obtained when a homogeneous α protein is mixed with an extract of a trpA mutant strain, suggesting that the interaction of α and β2 proteins is obligatory for α(5.7 S) formation. One can obtain a β2 protein preparation that when mixed with a pure α protein gives no α(5.7 S). Therefore, the interaction of α and β2 proteins alone is not sufficient for the formation of α(5.7 S). When a mixture of α and β2 proteins devoid of α(5.7 S) is added to extracts of trp deletion mutants, the novel species can be reconstituted in vitro only when deletions are used that carry at least the operator proximal part of the trpB gene. Therefore, it is concluded that the α(5.7 S) species of tryptophan synthetase results from the interaction of the α protein, the B2 protein, and a third component, β', specified by the deoxyribonucleic acid defined by the end points of two trp deletion mutants.
Multiclass microarray data classification based on confidence evaluation. Microarray technology is becoming a powerful tool for clinical diagnosis, as it has potential to discover gene expression patterns that are characteristic for a particular disease. To date, this possibility has received much attention in the context of cancer research, especially in tumor classification. However, most published articles have concentrated on the development of binary classification methods while neglected ubiquitous multiclass problems. Unfortunately, only a few multiclass classification approaches have had poor predictive accuracy. In an effort to improve classification accuracy, we developed a novel multiclass microarray data classification method. First, we applied a "one versus rest-support vector machine" to classify the samples. Then the classification confidence of each testing sample was evaluated according to its distribution in feature space and some with poor confidence were extracted. Next, a novel strategy, which we named as "class priority estimation method based on centroid distance", was used to make decisions about categories for those poor confidence samples. This approach was tested on seven benchmark multiclass microarray datasets, with encouraging results, demonstrating effectiveness and feasibility.
An analytical solution of the navier-stokes equation for flow over a moving plate bounded by two side walls. An exact solution of the Naiver-Stokes equation for unsteady flow over a moving plate between two side walls is given. This solution solves the problem that arises calculating shear stress at the bottom wall when the expression of velocity presented in literature is used. The variation of the shear stress at the bottom wall with the distance between two side walls for various values of the non-dimensional time is illustrated and it is shown that when the value of non-dimensional time is equal to unity, the shear stress approaches the asymptotic value. Furthermore, the volume flux across a plane normal to the flow is calculated and it is found that when the value of the non-dimensional time is equal to unity, the volume flux approaches the asymptotic value.
Taxonomy of the genus Veillonella Prevot. Results of NDA homology studies of 116 strains of Veillonella Prevot, representing the 2 species and 7 subspecies currently recognized in this genus, showed 7 DNA homology groups distinct at the species level. Because the type strains of V. parvula subsp. parvula and V. alcalescens subsp. alcalescens had high homology, the authors regard V. alcalescens Prevot 1933 as a later subjective synonym of V. parvula (Veillon and Zuber, 1896) Prevot 1933. The species V. parvula V. dispar (Rogosa) comb. nov., V. atypica (Rogosa) comb. nov., V. rodentium (Rogosa) comb. nov., V. ratti (Rogosa) comb. nov., V. criceti (Rogosa) comb. nov., and V. caviae sp. nov. (type strain, ATCC 33540) are recognized. Because most strains of V. criceti produced acid in peptone-yeast extract-fructose media, the genus description is amended to include strains that ferment fructose.
Molecular characterization of rockfish (Sebastes schlegeli) gonadotropin subunits and their mRNA expression profiles during oogenesis. In an attempt to understand the reproductive regulation in viviparous teleosts, gonadotropin (GTH) subunit cDNAs were characterized and the expression levels of GTH subunit mRNAs in the pituitary glands of the rockfish, Sebastes schlegeli (Scorpaeniformes, Scorpaenidae), were examined by Northern blot analysis. The complete sequences of rockfish GTH subunits (GTHα, FSHβ, and LHβ) were determined by rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE) and nucleotide sequencing. Based on the RACE analysis, the cDNAs of GTHα, FSHβ, and LHβ consisted of 655, 540, and 529 nucleotides encoding peptides of 132, 130, and 143 amino acids, respectively. The mature peptides of rockfish FSHβ, LHβ, and common GTHα showed high sequence identities (FSHβ, 58-62%; LHβ, 86-94%; and GTHα, 87-88%) to those of other perciforme (e.g., orange spotted grouper, red seabream, stripped bass, and sea bass). In a sequence alignment of the mature peptides, rockfish FSHβ exhibited a unique feature, the lack of a conserved N-glycosylation site. This is in contrast to both LHβ and GTHα which contain one and two N-glycosylation sites, respectively, and is consistent with those of other teleosts. The mRNA levels of the GTHα subunit increased at the vitellogenic stage and remained steady from ovulation to post-parturition. FSHβ mRNA levels increased abruptly during the vitellogenic stages and then decreased during ovulation, embryonic development, and post-parturition. LHβ mRNA levels were observed to rapidly increase during the vitellogenic stage, reached its highest levels during ovulation and was then followed by a decrease at post-parturition. These results suggest that in the female rockfish FSH and LH syntheses are predominant during vitellogenesis and oocyte maturation, respectively.
Recombinogenicity and mutagenicity of saccharin in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Diploid yeast grown in the presence of a commercial lot of saccharin exhibited reproducible, dose-dependent increases in intergenic and intragenic recombination, and mutation. Cells grew to nearly the same titer in media without saccharin and containing 2 or 20 mg saccharin/ml, although cell viability was somewhat reduced in saccharin-containing media. At the high test dose of 100 mg/ml, titers and cell viability were more markedly lowered. Differences between this study and previous (negative) tests of saccharin in yeast are described.
Chemoenzymatic synthesis and some biological properties of O-phosphoryl derivatives of (E)-resveratrol. 3-O-, 3,5-di-O- and 4′-O-phosphoryl derivatives of (E)-resveratrol have been obtained following a chemoenzymatic strategy. Variedly acylated resveratrol derivatives have been obtained first by exploiting regioselective properties of Pseudomonas cepacea or Candida antarctica lipases in organic solvents. Each acyl-resveratrol was then phosphorylated by the phosphoramidite chemistry protocol and in sequence freed of protective groups, affording the desired O-phosphoryl derivative. Following UV-absorption spectroscopic investigation on the interaction of the newly synthesized compounds with DNA, 4′-O-phosphorylresveratrol exhibited the best binding affinity. As a result of cytotoxicity tests, 3-O-phosphorylresveratrol was more active than resveratrol against DU 145 prostate cancer cells.
Changes in urine parameters after desert exposure: Assessment of stone risk in United States marines transiently exposed to a desert environment. Purpose: Living in a desert environment has been associated with a higher incidence of kidney stone formation, likely because of concentrated urine output, higher production of vitamin D and genetic predisposition. We determined the changes in urinary parameters after a group of United States Marines temporarily transitioned from a temperate environment to a desert environment. Materials and Methods: A total of 50 Marines completed a questionnaire and performed 3, 24-hour urine collections before mobilization to the desert, after 30 days in the desert and 2 weeks after returning from the desert. Results: Daily urine output decreased 68% to 0.52 L despite marked increased fluid intake (17 L per day). Total daily urinary excretion of calcium, uric acid, sodium, magnesium and potassium in the desert decreased by 70%, 41%, 53%, 22% and 36%, respectively. Urinary pH decreased from 6.1 to 5.6 while in the desert, and citrate and oxalate had minimal changes. After their return from the desert, apart from a decrease of 22% in oxalate, there were no statistically significant differences from baseline. While in the desert, relative supersaturation risks of uric acid and sodium urate were increased 153% and 56%, respectively. Brushite relative supersaturation decreased 24%. After their return there was no statistical difference from baseline. Conclusions: Our findings suggest that the kidneys preserved water and electrolytes while the Marines were subjected to the desert environment. Despite this conservation, relative saturations indicate increased risk of stones in healthy men exposed to a desert environment with rapid resolution upon return.
Reanalysis and revision of the complete mitochondrial genome of artemia urmiana günther, 1899 (Crustacea: Anostraca). In the previously published mitochondrial genome sequence of Artemia urmiana (NC_021382 [JQ975176]), the taxonomic status of the examined Artemia had not been determined, due to parthenogenetic populations coexisting with A. urmiana in Urmia Lake. Additionally, NC_021382 [JQ975176] has been obtained with pooled cysts of Artemia (0.25 g cysts consists of 20,000-25,000 cysts), not a single specimen. With regard to coexisting populations in Urmia Lake, and intra- and inter-specific variations in the pooled samples, NC_021382 [JQ975176] cannot be recommended as a valid sequence and any attempt to attribute it to A. urmiana or a parthenogenetic population is unreasonable. With the aid of next-generation sequencing methods, we characterized and assembled a complete mitochondrial genome of A. urmiana with defined taxonomic status. Our results reveal that in the previously published mitogenome (NC_021382 [JQ975176]), tRNA-Phe has been erroneously attributed to the heavy strand but it is encoded in the light strand. There was a major problem in the position of the ND5. It was extended over the tRNA-Phe, which is biologically incorrect. We have also identified a partial nucleotide sequence of 311 bp that was probably erroneously duplicated in the assembly of the control region of NC_021382 [JQ975176], which enlarges the control region length by 16%. This partial sequence could not be recognized in our assembled mitogenome as well as in 48 further examined specimens of A. urmiana. Although, only COX1 and 16S genes have been widely used for phylogenetic studies in Artemia, our findings reveal substantial differences in the nucleotide composition of some other genes (including ATP8, ATP6, ND3, ND6, ND1 and COX3) among Artemia species. It is suggested that these markers should be included in future phylogenetic studies.
Response to selection for harvest body weight of Oreochromis shiranus. Realised and predicted responses to selection were obtained for harvest body weight of Oreochromis shiranus from two generations of selection at the National Aquaculture Centre, Domasi, Malawi. The realised response was estimated from the difference in the least squares means of selected and unselected control populations, while the predicted response was obtained from the difference of the mean breeding values between generations. The realised (13.2%) and predicted (14.4%) responses for harvest body weight over the two generations of selection were not significantly different (P > 0.05). The intensity of selection from F1 to F2 (0.66) and from F2 to F3 (0.59) was low due to availability of few selection candidates per family at harvest caused by mortality, tag loss and the need to form broad heterogeneous multi-strain F2 and F3 populations. Within generation, the heritability estimates for the F1 (0.31 ± 0.09), F2 (0.31 ± 0.10) and F3 (0.35 ± 0.11) generations were moderate. Across generation, the heritability estimate was low (0.14 ± 0.27). Within generation, the magnitude of the common full-sib effect was moderate (0.08-0.09) and not significantly different from zero (P > 0.05). However, across generations, the common full-sib effect was high (0.27 ±0.05) and significantly different from zero (P < 0.05). A substantial correlated selection response due to selection for increased harvest body weight was observed for both tagging body weight and for survival from tagging to harvest; for tagging body weight 22.8% from F1 to F2 and 15.9% from F2 to F3; for survival 7.2% from F1 to F2 and 13.8% from F2 to F3. The results are discussed in relation to the maximisation of the genetic gain in the future generations while constraining the rate of inbreeding.
Importance of opgHXcv of Xanthomonas campestris pv. vesicatoria in host-parasite interactions. Tn5 insertion mutants of Xanthomonas campestris pv. vesicatoria were inoculated into tomato and screened for reduced virulence. One mutant exhibited reduced aggressiveness and attenuated growth in planta. Southern blot analyses indicated that the mutant carried a single Tn5 insertion not associated with previously cloned pathogenicity-related genes of X. campestris pv. vesicatoria. The wild-type phenotype of this mutant was restored by one recombinant plasmid (pOPG361) selected from a genomic library of X. campestris pv. vesicatoria 91-118. Tn3-gus insertion mutagenesis and sequence analyses of a sub-clone of pOPG361 identified a 1,929-bp open reading frame (ORF) essential for complementation of the mutants. The predicted protein encoded by this ORF was highly homologous to the previously reported pathogenicity-related HrpM protein of Pseudomonas syringae pv. syringae and OpgH of Erwinia chrysanthemi. Based on homology, the new locus was designated opgHXcv. Manipulation of the osmotic potential in the intercellular spaces of tomato leaves by addition of mannitol at low concentrations (25 to 50 mM) compensates for the opgH Xcv mutation.
Ameliorative effect of Beta vulgaris root extract on chlorpyrifos-induced oxidative stress, inflammation and liver injury in rats. Exposure to organophosphorus insecticides causes several health problems to animals and humans. Red beetroot (RBR) is rich in antioxidant ingredients and possesses a promising hepatoprotective activity. This study evaluated the potential of RBR extract to prevent chlorpyrifos (CPF)-induced liver injury, with an emphasis on oxidative stress, inflammation and apoptosis. Rats received 10 mg/kg CPF and were treated with 300 mg/kg RBR extract for 28 days. CPF caused liver injury evidenced by elevated serum levels of serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and bilirubin, along with several histological alterations. Hepatic lipid peroxidation (LPO) and nitric oxide (NO) levels, as well as inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and pro-inflammatory cytokines were increased in CPF-intoxicated rats. RBR prevented CPF-induced histological alterations, and ameliorated liver function, LPO, NO, iNOS and pro-inflammatory cytokines. RBR boosted glutathione and antioxidant enzymes, and increased Nrf2 expression. In addition, RBR diminished Bax and caspase-3, and increased Bcl-2 expression. In conclusion, RBR prevented CPF-induced liver injury via attenuation of oxidative stress, inflammation and apoptosis. RBR enhanced antioxidant defenses, suggesting that it could be used as a potential therapeutic intervention to minimize CPF hepatotoxicity.
Is biotechnology a victim of anti-science bias in scientific journals?. Primarily outside the scientific community, misapprehensions and misinformation about recombinant DNA-modified (also known as 'genetically modified', or 'GM') plants have generated significant 'pseudo-controversy' over their safety that has resulted in unscientific and excessive regulation (with attendant inflated development costs) and disappointing progress. But pseudo-controversy and sensational claims have originated within the scientific community as well, and even scholarly journals' treatment of the subject has been at times unscientific, one-sided and irresponsible. These shortcomings have helped to perpetuate 'The Big Lie' - that recombinant DNA technology applied to agriculture and food production is unproven, unsafe, untested, unregulated and unwanted. Those misconceptions, in turn, have given rise to unwarranted opposition and tortuous, distorted public policy.
Francisella tularensis infection in a stone marten (Martes foina) without classic pathological lesions consistent with tularemia. The current report describes the isolation and typing of a strain of Francisella tularensis, the causative agent of tularemia, from the spleen of a stone marten (Martes foina) showing no classic lesions consistent with the disease. The identification of this bacterium, belonging to the World Health Organization risk 3 category and considered to have a low infectious dose, could be performed only because of an ongoing project screening F. tularensis in the environment sensu lato. The findings described herein should alert diagnostic laboratories of the possible presence of F. tularensis in clinical samples in countries where tularemia is endemic even in cases with no consistent anamnesis and from unsuspected animal species.
Ecology of sable of North-Western Yakutian native population. In 2003-2012, 687 carcasses of aboriginal sables of Zhigansk population represented by the Yenisey subspecies (Martes zibellina yeniseensis Ognev, 1925) inhabiting North-Western Yakutia were studied. Skull and body size of native sables were larger and fur colour was lighter as compared to the Vitim subspecies (M. z. princeps Birula, 1922) introduced in South-Western Yakutia (Olekma population). Dynamics of the native population is characterized by the prevalence of natural cycles at moderate hunting rates. The portion of juveniles made up 69.3% on average. Among adults 37.0% were 1-year-old animals, 25.1% 2-year-old, and 13.3% 3-year-old sables. Animals aged 4 to 12 years were less numerous (24.6%), especially females (8.5%). Fertility (3.46±0.2) and fecundity (2.77±0.3) rates as well as the number of reproducing females (61.4%), especially at the age of one year (2.9%), were less than in Olekma population. The diet of Zhigansk sables was based on northern red-backed voles (Myodes rutilus) (43.7% of studied stomachs), grey red-backed voles (Craseomys rufocanus) (43.7%) and root voles (Alexandromys oeconomus) (50.2%). Consumption of pikas (Ochotona sp.) was increased (up to 31.2%) in separate years. Birds were rarely consumed (1.6%). Plant food mainly consisted of bog bilberry (Vaccinium uliginosum) (15.5%). Poorly-nourished sables made up 71.9% of the sample. The number of moderately fat and very fat sables increased with age. Among them, males (30.2%) prevailed over females (25.7%). The relative mass of paranephric fat was lowest in sables aged 1 to 8 years. Sex-related differences in fat index were recorded only in juveniles.
Preparation of N,N′-disilylated 1,8-diaminonaphthalene chelates and their group 4 metal complexes for ethylene polymerization. The reaction of 1,8-diaminonaphthalene with trimethylchlorosilane and tri(isopropyl)-chlorosilane gives N,N′-disilylated products (1a,b) in moderate yields. Double deprotonation of 1a,b with n-BuLi yields the dilithiated products (2a,b) in 78-85% yield. The reaction of 2a,b with TiCl4 produces diamidotitanium(IV) dichlorides, {1,8-C10H6(NSiMe3)2}TiCl2 (3a) and {1,8-C10H6(NSi(i-Pr)3)2}TiCl 2 (3b). The crystal structure of 3a shows that the complex has an unusually large Cl-Ti-Cl angle (120.5°). Meanwhile, the bulkier substituents on the nitrogen atoms of 3b are significantly away from the naphthalene plane. The reaction of 2a,b with ZrCl4 produces a bis(diamido)zirconium(IV) complex {1,8-C10H6(NSiMe3)2}2Zr (4a) and a diamidozirconium(IV) dichloride {1,8-C10H6(NSi(i-Pr)3)2}ZrCl 2 (4b), respectively. The crystal structure of 4b shows that the molecule forms a dimer associated through two chloro bridges in the solid state. Facile monomethylation and transmetalation of 3a to form a dinuclear aluminum complex (5) were observed when it was exposed to trimethylaluminum. The molecular structure of 5 is identified with an independent synthesis and X-ray crystallography. The crystal structure of 5 shows that two nitrogen centers and two aluminum centers comprise a metallacycle in a butterfly shape. In contrast, only monomethylation of 3b occurs at room temperature. However, no sign of methylation was observed for 4b at all. With a modified methylalumoxane (MAO), transfer of methyl and isopropyl groups to 3a and 3b was observed at room temperature. However, the transmetalated product 5 was not observed under the particular conditions. It is found that 3a and 3b show the marginal reactivity for ethylene polymerization in the presence of MAO.
Decision-making dilemmas in genetic counseling. Counselors generally agree that 20 minutes allotted for consideration of the individual cases was much too brief. The implications of this observation for delivery of genetic counseling services are highlighted in view of the frequent pattern of allowing little more than one hour for many genetic counseling sessions. Often 20 minutes is taken in obtaining the family history and another 20 minutes in educating the family about risk figures. This leaves very little time for actually working with the family to facilitate their decision making. Although the usefulness of the written decisional balance sheet has not been proven for genetic counseling, this method appears to provide a useful vehicle for communication, orderly thinking, and placing the patient's values on an equal footing with the 'professional' facts. Participants suggested that it would be particularly helpful to provide families with a copy of the balance sheet after genetic counseling to allow them to continue their deliberations in a focused fashion at home and perhaps at follow-up visits to the genetics clinic. Research protocols should be developed by clinics employing the decisional balance sheet approach in order to assess whether this method in fact improves the quality of the decision-making process.
Structural analysis of altered large-subunit loop-6/carboxy-terminus interactions that influence catalytic efficiency and CO2/O 2 specificity of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase. The loop between α-helix 6 and β-strand 6 in the α/β-barrel of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase plays a key role in discriminating between CO2 and O2. Genetic screening in Chlamydomonas reinhardtii previously identified a loop-6 V331A substitution that decreases carboxylation and CO2/O2 specificity. Revenant selection identified T342I and G344S substitutions that restore photosynthetic growth by increasing carboxylation and specificity of the V331A enzyme. In numerous X-ray crystal structures, loop 6 is closed or open depending on the activation state of the enzyme and the presence or absence of ligands. The carboxy terminus folds over loop 6 in the closed state. To study the molecular basis for catalysis, directed mutagenesis and chloroplast transformation were used to create T342I and G344S substitutions alone. X-ray crystal structures were then solved for the V331A, V331A/ T342I, T342I, and V331A/G344S enzymes, as well as for a D473E enzyme created to assess the role of the carboxy terminus in loop-6 closure. V331A disturbs a hydrophobic pocket, abolishing several van der Waals interactions. These changes are complemented by T342I and G344S, both of which alone cause decreases in CO2/O 2 specificity. In the V331A/T342I revertant enzyme, Arg339 main-chain atoms are displaced. In V331A/G344S, α-helix 6 is shifted. D473E causes disorder of the carboxy terminus, but loop 6 remains closed. Interactions between a transition-state analogue and several residues are altered in the mutant enzymes. However, active-site Lys334 at the apex of loop 6 has a normal conformation. A variety of subtle interactions must be responsible for catalytic efficiency and CO2/O2 specificity.
Characterization of macrolide-resistant Campylobacter coli isolates from food-producing animals on farms across Japan during 2004. We investigated the susceptibilities against 7 antimicrobial agents in Campylobacter jejuni and C. coli isolates from food-producing animals in 2004. In comparison with the results of past surveillance, no significant difference was observed in resistance rates against all of the antimicrobials tested in Campylobacter isolates. However, slight increase of erythromycin (EM) resistance was found in C. coli isolates from pigs. We examined the mutation of the 23S rRNA gene and their susceptibilities against azithromycin, tylosin, and lincomycin in 44 EM-resistant isolates and 28 susceptible isolates of porcine origin. All the EM-resistant isolates contained A2075G in the 23S rRNA gene and showed cross-resistance to azithromycin, tylosin, and lyncomycin.
A genetic map of large yellow croaker Pseudosciaena crocea. Genetic linkage maps were constructed for large yellow croaker Pseudosciaena crocea (Richardson, 1846) using AFLP and microsatellite markers in an F1 family. Five hundred and twenty-three AFLP markers and 36 microsatellites were genotyped in the parents and 94 F1 progeny. Among these, 362 AFLP markers and 13 SSR markers followed the 1:1 Mendelian segregation ratio (P > 0.05). The female genetic map contained 181 AFLP and 7 microsatellite markers forming 24 linkage groups spanning 2959.1 cM, while the male map consisted of 153 AFLP and 8 microsatellite markers in 23 linkage groups covering 2205.7 cM. One sex linked marker was mapped to the male map and co-segregated with the AFLP marker agacta355, suggesting an XY-male determination mechanism and this may be useful in the breeding of monosex populations.
Conformation analysis of carbohydrate chains of glycoconjugates. A problem of conformations of carbohydrate chains of glycoconjugates-glycoproteins and glycolipids--is reviewed. Experimental data (NMR, X-Ray) and theoretical conformational analysis data are discussed. Spatial structures of O-linked oligosaccharides from blood-group glycoproteins, N-linked oligosaccharides of different types (oligomannosidic, complex, hybrid, bisect) and carbohydrate chains of glycosphingolipids are considered.
Heterologous expression and mutagenesis of recombinant Vespa affinis hyaluronidase protein (rVesA2). Background: Crude venom of the banded tiger wasp Vespa affinis contains a variety of enzymes including hyaluronidases, commonly known as spreading factors. Methods: The cDNA cloning, sequence analysis and structural modelling of V. affinis venom hyaluronidase (VesA2) were herein described. Moreover, heterologous expression and mutagenesis of rVesA2 were performed. Results: V. affinis venom hyaluronidase full sequence is composed of 331 amino acids, with four predicted N-glycosylation sites. It was classified into the glycoside hydrolase family 56. The homology modelling exhibited a central core (α/β)7 composed of Asp107 and Glu109, acting as the catalytic residues. The recombinant protein was successfully expressed in E. coli with hyaluronidase activity. A recombinant mutant type with the double point mutation, Asp107Asn and Glu109Gln, completely lost this activity. The hyaluronidase from crude venom exhibited activity from pH 2 to 7. The recombinant wild type showed its maximal activity at pH 2 but decreased rapidly to nearly zero at pH 3 and was completely lost at pH 4. Conclusion: The recombinant wild-type protein showed its maximal activity at pH 2, more acidic pH than that found in the crude venom. The glycosylation was predicted to be responsible for the pH optimum and thermal stability of the enzymes activity.
Bread quality of spelt wheat and its starch. Flours from five spelt cultivars grown over three years were evaluated as to their breadbaking quality and isolated starch properties. The starch properties included amylose contents, gelatinization temperatures (differential scanning calorimetry), granule size distributions, and pasting properties. Milled flour showed highly variable protein content and was higher than hard winter wheat, with short dough-mix times indicating weak gluten. High protein cultivars gave good crumb scores, some of which surpassed the HRW baking control. Loaf volume was correlated to protein and all spelt cultivars were at least 9-51% lower than the HRW control. Isolated starch properties revealed an increase in amylose in the spelt starches of 2-21% over the hard red winter wheat (HRW) control. Negative correlations were observed for the large A-type granules to bread crumb score, amylose level, and final pasting viscosity for cultivars grown in year 1999 and to pasting temperature in 1998 samples. Positive correlations were found for the small B- and C-type granules relative to crumb score, loaf volume, amylose, and RVA final pasting viscosity for cultivars grown in 1999, and to RVA pasting temperature for samples grown in 1998. The environmental impact on spelt properties seemed to have a greater effect than genetic control.
Perspectives on canine and feline hepatozoonosis. Two species of Hepatozoon are currently known to infect dogs and cause distinct diseases. Hepatozoon canis prevalent in Africa, Asia, southern Europe, South America and recently shown to be present also in the USA causes infection mainly of hemolymphoid organs, whereas Hepatozoon americanum prevalent in the southeastern USA causes myositis and severe lameness. H. americanum is transmitted by ingestion of the Gulf Coast tick Amblyomma maculatum and also by predation on infected prey. H. canis is transmitted by Rhipicephalus sanguineus, in South America also by Amblyomma ovale, and has also been shown to be transmitted transplacentally. Hepatozoonosis of domestic cats has been described mostly from the same areas where canine infection is present and the exact identity of the species which infect cats, their pathogenicity and vectors have not been elucidated. The diagnosis of hepatozoonosis is made by observation of gamonts in blood smears, histopathology, PCR or serology. The main treatment for H. canis is with imidocarb dipropionate whereas H. americanum infection is treated with an initial combination of trimethoprim-sulfadiazine, pyrimethamine and clindamycin followed by maintenance with decoquinate. Treatment for both diseases has not been reported to facilitate complete parasite elimination and new effective drugs are needed for the management of these infections. Prevention of hepatozoonosis should be based on avoidance of oral ingestion of infected tick vectors and infected prey.
Isolation of aerobic bacterial agents from the lungs of sheep and goats with pneumonia and detection of Pasteurella multocida and Mannheimia haemolytica by polymerase chain reaction. The purpose of this study was to isolate Pasteurella spp and other aerobic bacterial agents from the lungs of sheep and goats with pneumonia and to identify Pasteurella multocida and Mannheimia haemolytica by both culture methods and polymerase chain reaction (PCR). In addition, mouse pathogenecity tests were carried out on suspected P. multocida isolates. In the examination of lung samples collected from sheep, 15 (4.3%) P. multocida and 8 (2.3%) M. haemolytica strains were isolated and identified. The numbers of species identified in the goat samples were 1 (0.7%) for P. multocida and 6 (4%) for M. haemolytica. The differences between the numbers of P. multocida and M. haemolytica strains isolated from the sheep and goat lung samples were not statistically significant (P = 0.2 in sheep and P = 0.12 in goats). Thirteen (86.7%) P. multocida isolates were positive in the mouse pathogenecity test in sheep. One P. multocida isolate from goats was also positive in the mouse pathogenecity test. All P. multocida and M. haemolytica strains that tested positive by culture also tested positive by PCR. However, no toxigenic P. multocida were detected in any isolates by PCR using primers derived from the toxA gene. In conclusion, this study showed the feasibilty of PCR for the accurate and rapid identification of P. multocida and M. haemolytica.
Seed germination and seedling establishment of some wild almond species. Wild almond species are important genetic resources for resistance to unsuitable condition, especially drought stress. They have been used traditionally as rootstocks in some areas of Iran. So far, 21 wild almond species and 7 inter species hybrids have been identified in Iran. To study seed germination and seedling establishment of some of these species, three separate experiments were designed. In the first experiment, the application of gibberellic acid (GA3) (0, 250, 500 and 750 ppm) for 24 h was studied on germination characteristics of four wild almond accessions after stratification at 5 ± 0.5°C in Perlite media. Germination percentage, index vigor and root initiation factors were different in almond accessions, but were not affected by hormonal treatments. In the second experiment, seeds of another six wild almond accessions were stratified to compare their germination ability. Germination percentage, index vigor and root initiation were different among accessions significantly. In the last experiment, the establishment and vigor of 14 accessions from eight almond species have been evaluated in plastic bags in outdoor conditions. Two ecotypes of Prunus spp. had the highest stem diameter and length at all growing stages.
Perspectives on canine and feline hepatozoonosis. Two species of Hepatozoon are currently known to infect dogs and cause distinct diseases. Hepatozoon canis prevalent in Africa, Asia, southern Europe, South America and recently shown to be present also in the USA causes infection mainly of hemolymphoid organs, whereas Hepatozoon americanum prevalent in the southeastern USA causes myositis and severe lameness. H. americanum is transmitted by ingestion of the Gulf Coast tick Amblyomma maculatum and also by predation on infected prey. H. canis is transmitted by Rhipicephalus sanguineus, in South America also by Amblyomma ovale, and has also been shown to be transmitted transplacentally. Hepatozoonosis of domestic cats has been described mostly from the same areas where canine infection is present and the exact identity of the species which infect cats, their pathogenicity and vectors have not been elucidated. The diagnosis of hepatozoonosis is made by observation of gamonts in blood smears, histopathology, PCR or serology. The main treatment for H. canis is with imidocarb dipropionate whereas H. americanum infection is treated with an initial combination of trimethoprim-sulfadiazine, pyrimethamine and clindamycin followed by maintenance with decoquinate. Treatment for both diseases has not been reported to facilitate complete parasite elimination and new effective drugs are needed for the management of these infections. Prevention of hepatozoonosis should be based on avoidance of oral ingestion of infected tick vectors and infected prey.
Isolation of aerobic bacterial agents from the lungs of sheep and goats with pneumonia and detection of Pasteurella multocida and Mannheimia haemolytica by polymerase chain reaction. The purpose of this study was to isolate Pasteurella spp and other aerobic bacterial agents from the lungs of sheep and goats with pneumonia and to identify Pasteurella multocida and Mannheimia haemolytica by both culture methods and polymerase chain reaction (PCR). In addition, mouse pathogenecity tests were carried out on suspected P. multocida isolates. In the examination of lung samples collected from sheep, 15 (4.3%) P. multocida and 8 (2.3%) M. haemolytica strains were isolated and identified. The numbers of species identified in the goat samples were 1 (0.7%) for P. multocida and 6 (4%) for M. haemolytica. The differences between the numbers of P. multocida and M. haemolytica strains isolated from the sheep and goat lung samples were not statistically significant (P = 0.2 in sheep and P = 0.12 in goats). Thirteen (86.7%) P. multocida isolates were positive in the mouse pathogenecity test in sheep. One P. multocida isolate from goats was also positive in the mouse pathogenecity test. All P. multocida and M. haemolytica strains that tested positive by culture also tested positive by PCR. However, no toxigenic P. multocida were detected in any isolates by PCR using primers derived from the toxA gene. In conclusion, this study showed the feasibilty of PCR for the accurate and rapid identification of P. multocida and M. haemolytica.
Abortion practices and attitudes in cross-cultural perspective. This article presents an overview of abortion practices and attitudes in primitive societies and in Western civilization. The changing positions of the major world religions and nations are provided. Attention is given both to restrictions on abortion and to its active promotion, as exemplified by current conditions in the People's Republic of China. A brief history of abortion in the United States is presented, followed by the results of two major polls on consumer attitudes. The latter data indicate a growing liberalization of abortion attitudes and an association between such liberal beliefs and the following factors: age under 40 years, higher education, non-Catholicism, irregular church attendance, and positive attitude toward sex education in the schools and availability of contraceptives for teenage girls. It is also shown that people who strongly oppose abortion are more likely than advocates of abortion to lend financial or other forms of tangible support to their cause.
The metallogenic type and ore-prospecting potential of Yuelong copper deposit. According to the analysis of ore-forming geological environment, ore deposit geology feature, rock mass, and mineralization characteristic of Yuelong lead and copper deposit, we have realized that this deposit is located the south of the Hongliuhe-Niuquanzi-Xichangjing suture zone and belongs to the Early Paleozoic Passive continental margin. The ore-bearing strata are Dahuoluo Mountain Group of the Qingbaikouan System, its parent rock is granitic porphyry. The mineralization discovered mainly located in the contact zone between dolomite and granitic porphyry. On the basis of petrochemistry data, we hold that the granitic porphyry is the S-type granite, having the character of kaligranite. Comparing the Gongpoquan and Baishantang Porphyry copper deposit found in this area, we think that they are the same genetic type of ore deposit. In consideration of the shallow denudation of the granitic porphyry in Yuelong copper and lead deposit and there are more similar rock masses, the we think that finding more Porphyry copper deposits in this area is quite possible (including fine veins-disseminated in rock mass and metasomatism filling in contact zone and vein-type out of the rock mass).
Mating behavior in seaweed flies (Coelopa frigida). Video recordings were used to obtain a detailed description of the mating behavior of seaweed flies. The roles of wings, antennae, and legs were inferred from ablation and masking experiments. There is no apparent interaction between flies over a distance of more than 1-2 cm. After mounting the prothoracic legs of the male are located in the region of the female's antennae and interactions between these structures appear to facilitate successful mating. There follows either a female rejection response or a voluntary dismount by the male, or mating proceeds to insemination. When triplets of one female and two males were observed, larger males often displaced small males and were themselves less frequently displaced. The observed opportunities for female choice, male choice, and male-male competition are discussed in the light of previous reports of differential male mating success and of assortative mating with respect to size and genotypes.
Impact of zinc application methods on green gram (Vigna radiata L.) productivity and grain zinc fortification. Application of Zn @ 0, 5.5 kg, 22 kg Zn ha-1, 0.1% Zn foliar application, 5.5 kg Zn + 0.1% Zn spray, increased the yield, concentration and its uptake in seed and straw in all the green gram genotypes. However, combined application of 5.5 kg Zn ha-1+ 0.1% Zn as foliar increased the straw yield by 56.4% and seed yield by 57%, which was the highest. Maximum Zn concentration in straw and seed (5.48 and 3.5 folds over control) was achieved when combined application of soil + foliar was made. Soil + foliar application of Zn increased the seed crude protein by 26.9% over control. Seed and straw Zn content showed a significant and positive correlation with all yield attributes except branches per plant.
Multi locus sequence typing of Burkholderia pseudomallei isolates from India unveils molecular diversity and confers regional association in Southeast Asia. Objectives: Burkholderia pseudomallei, the causative agent for melioidosis, has become a public health problem in India and across the world. Melioidosis can be difficult to diagnose because of the inconsistent clinical presentations of the disease. This study aims to determine the genetic diversity among the clinical isolates of B. pseudomaelli from India in order to establish a molecular epidemiology and elucidate the Southeast Asian association. Methods: Molecular typing using multi locus sequence typing was performed on thirty one archived B. pseudomallei clinical isolates, previously characterised from specimens obtained from patients admitted to the Christian Medical College & Hospital, Vellore from 2015 to 2016. Further investigations into the genetic heterogeneity and evolution at a regional and global level were performed using insilico tools. Results: Multi locus sequence typing (MLST) of the isolates from systemic and localized forms of melioidosis, including blood, pus, tissue, and urine specimens, revealed twenty isolates with novel sequence types and eleven with previously reported sequence types. High genetic diversity was observed using MLST with a strong association within the Southeast Asian region. Conclusions: Molecular typing of B. pseudomallei clinical isolates using MLST revealed high genetic diversity and provided a baseline molecular epidemiology of the disease in India with a strong Southeast Asian association of the strains. Future studies should focus on whole genome based Single-Nucleotide-Polymorphism (SNP) which has the advantage of a high discriminatory power, to further understand the novel sequence types reported in this study.
Whole genome sequencing of peach (Prunus persica L.) for SNP identification and selection. Background: The application of next generation sequencing technologies and bioinformatic scripts to identify high frequency SNPs distributed throughout the peach genome is described. Three peach genomes were sequenced using Roche 454 and Illumina/Solexa technologies to obtain long contigs for alignment to the draft 'Lovell' peach sequence as well as sufficient depth of coverage for 'in silico' SNP discovery.Description: The sequences were aligned to the 'Lovell' peach genome released April 01, 2010 by the International Peach Genome Initiative (IPGI). 'Dr. Davis', 'F8, 1-42' and 'Georgia Belle' were sequenced to add SNPs segregating in two breeding populations, Pop DF ('Dr. Davis' × 'F8, 1-42') and Pop DG ('Dr. Davis' × 'Georgia Belle'). Roche 454 sequencing produced 980,000 total reads with 236 Mb sequence for 'Dr. Davis' and 735,000 total reads with 172 Mb sequence for 'F8, 1-42'. 84 bp × 84 bp paired end Illumina/Solexa sequences yielded 25.5, 21.4, 25.5 million sequences for 'Dr. Davis', 'F8, 1-42' and 'Georgia Belle', respectively. BWA/SAMtools were used for alignment of raw reads and SNP detection, with custom PERL scripts for SNP filtering. Velvet's Columbus module was used for sequence assembly. Comparison of aligned and overlapping sequences from both Roche 454 and Illumina/Solexa resulted in the selection of 6654 high quality SNPs for 'Dr. Davis' vs. 'F8, 1-42' and 'Georgia Belle', distributed on eight major peach genome scaffolds as defined from the 'Lovell' assembly.Conclusion: The eight scaffolds contained about 215-225 Mb of peach genomic sequences with one SNP/~ 40,000 bases. All sequences from Roche 454 and Illumina/Solexa have been submitted to NCBI for public use in the Short Read Archive database. SNPs have been deposited in the NCBI SNP database.
Meadowbrook Women's Clinic v. State of Minnesota.. A Minnesota statute that prohibited abortion advertisements was found unconstitutional by the U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota. The statute, which was challenged by a corporation providing reproductive services that sought to purchase advertisements in the telephone company's yellow pages, unconstitutionally prohibited protected speech, since the proposed advertisement contained truthful information about lawful services offered by the corporation. The state also failed to demonstrate that the statute served a compelling interest or that it was a reasonable means of furthering such an interest.
The Interactions Between Antibiotic Resistance Genes and Heavy Metal Pollution Under Co-Selective Pressure Influenced the Bio-Enzyme Activity. The spread of antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) has brought potential risks to public health. However, the interactions between heavy metals and ARGs, as well as their potential effect on bio-enzyme activity under the pressure of co-selectivity in soil still remain poorly understood. In this work, the distribution characteristics and the co-selective relationship of 28 ARGs and eight heavy metals in soil in a dairy farm were visualized via the geographic information system (GIS) technique. Eight kinds of heavy metals were detected by an atomic fluorescence spectrometer and atomic absorption spectrophotometer, which were further evaluated via the single factor pollution index value. The GIS analysis showed that arsenic (As) was the key element responsible for soil pollution, which was found to be positively related to soil depths. The top three comprehensive scores of ARGs ranked the orders of sul2 > tetX > blaTEM, indicating the high potential of risk caused by these genes in the soil environment. In addition, the functional predications performed with the 16 SrDNA sequencing data based on the KEGG database indicated that the sulfonamides in soil involved multiple pathways, especially the metabolism, transport and catabolism, and membrane transport processes. This suggested that most bio-enzymes were found to be expressed in low activities in different pathways. Significant correlations were observed between the heavy metals and ARGs (p < 0.05), particularly between the ARGs and As, Cu, Ni, Pb, and Zn (p < 0.01). This study offers deep insights into the potential interactions between heavy metals and ARGs in soil and provides guidance for the fabrication of enzyme-based smart materials for soil remediation in dairy farms.
Characterization and phylogenetic analysis of allergenic Tryp-alpha-amyl protein family in plants. Most known allergenic proteins in rice (Oryza sativa) seed belong to the Tryp-alpha-amyl family (PF00234), but the sequence characterization and the evolution of the allergenic Tryp-alpha-amyl family members in plants have not been fully investigated. In this study, two specific motifs were found besides the common alpha-amylase inhibitors (AAI) domain from the allergenic Tryp-alpha-amyl family members in rice seeds (trRSAs). To understand the evolution and functional importance of the Tryp-alpha-amy1 family and the specific motifs for the allergenic one, a BLAST search identified 75 homologous proteins of trRSAs (trHAs) from 22 plant species including main crops such as rice, maize (Zea mays), wheat (Triticum aestivum), and sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) from all available sequences in the public databases. Statistical analysis showed that the allergenicity of trHAs is closely associated with these two motifs with high number of cysteine residues (p value = 0.00026), and the trHAs with and without the two motifs were clustered into separate clades, respectively. Furthermore, significant difference was observed on the secondary and tertiary structures of allergenic and nonallergenic trHAs. In addition, expression analysis showed that trHA-encoding genes of purple false brome (Brachypodium distachyon), barrel medic (Medicago truncatula), rice, and sorghum are dominantly expressed in seeds. This work provides insight into the understanding of the properties of allergens in the Tryp-alpha-amyl family and is helpful for allergy therapy.
Biocultural and ecogastronomic restoration: The Renewing America's food Traditions alliance. One of the emerging motivations for community engagement in ecological restoration is the recovery of plant and animal species, subspecies, and stocks historically utilized as foods. New alliances of conservation biologists, ecological restorationists, native food activists, and chefs are joining forces for these collaborative conservation and restoration initiatives. The Renewing America's Food Traditions (RAFT) Alliance is one such collaboration, and it is engaged in identifying and recovering wild foods that have historically been depleted by a variety of pressures. It has identified at least 267 wild species, subspecies, stocks, or ecotypes of place-based foods at risk in North America. Of these, 43 may be broadly classified as wild game (including 12 birds, 20 mammals, and 10 reptiles), 82 as wild-foraged plants, 40 as shellfish, and 103 as fish. Of 267 place-based heritage foods in the RAFT database, fewer than a dozen have been extirpated as species, subspecies, or populations, but 45 (17%) are the subjects of genetic recovery and habitat restoration as noted in previous articles and abstracts featured in this journal. Taking into account all the restoration efforts for place-based foods at risk that have been reported in this journal and in recent oral communications, a minimum of 38% of North America's wild foods at risk may be on the way to recovery at one or more sites. We also discuss four cases studies of collaborative efforts toward gastroeconomic and biocultural restoration.
Cadmium Induction of Metallothionein Isoforms in Juvenile and Adult Mussel (Mytilus edulis). Isoforms of metallothionein in the digestive gland of control and experimentally Cd-exposed mussels (Mytilus edulis) (200 μg L-1 Cd2+ and 400 μg L-1 Cd2+; 20 days) were studied using the reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. In addition, glutathione S-transferase (GSTpi) primers were designed to evaluate the reduction in the antioxidant defense systems (glutathione) accompanying the aging process in the same organisms. Following experimental exposure, an accumulation of Cd was observed in the digestive gland of exposed mussels, both adults and juveniles, up to 500 times higher than in the control. An induction of the dimeric form MT20 II was detected in 400 μg L-1 exposed mussels, as well as a visible inhibition of the monomeric form MT10 IV. After 20 days of exposure juveniles expressed increased GSTpi compared with adults. Results reveal individual variation of both metallothioneins and GSTpi expression among control and Cd2+-exposed mussels of different ages. The ecotoxicological significance of MT utilization in biomonitoring of seawater for trace metals has been considered in light of these results.
Mercury in western North America: A synthesis of environmental contamination, fluxes, bioaccumulation, and risk to fish and wildlife. Western North America is a region defined by extreme gradients in geomorphology and climate, which support a diverse array of ecological communities and natural resources. The region also has extreme gradients in mercury (Hg) contamination due to a broad distribution of inorganic Hg sources. These diverse Hg sources and a varied landscape create a unique and complex mosaic of ecological risk from Hg impairment associated with differential methylmercury (MeHg) production and bioaccumulation. Understanding the landscape-scale variation in the magnitude and relative importance of processes associated with Hg transport, methylation, and MeHg bioaccumulation requires a multidisciplinary synthesis that transcends small-scale variability. The Western North America Mercury Synthesis compiled, analyzed, and interpreted spatial and temporal patterns and drivers of Hg and MeHg in air, soil, vegetation, sediments, fish, and wildlife across western North America. This collaboration evaluated the potential risk from Hg to fish, and wildlife health, human exposure, and examined resource management activities that influenced the risk of Hg contamination. This paper integrates the key information presented across the individual papers that comprise the synthesis. The compiled information indicates that Hg contamination is widespread, but heterogeneous, across western North America. The storage and transport of inorganic Hg across landscape gradients are largely regulated by climate and land-cover factors such as plant productivity and precipitation. Importantly, there was a striking lack of concordance between pools and sources of inorganic Hg, and MeHg in aquatic food webs. Additionally, water management had a widespread influence on MeHg bioaccumulation in aquatic ecosystems, whereas mining impacts where relatively localized. These results highlight the decoupling of inorganic Hg sources with MeHg production and bioaccumulation. Together the findings indicate that developing efforts to control MeHg production in the West may be particularly beneficial for reducing food web exposure instead of efforts to simply control inorganic Hg sources.
Isolation and characterization of mutants corresponding to the MENA, MENB, MENC and MENE enzymatic steps of 5′-monohydroxyphylloquinone biosynthesis in Chlamydomonas reinhardtii. Phylloquinone (PhQ), or vitamin K1, is an essential electron carrier (A1) in photosystem I (PSI). In the green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, which is a model organism for the study of photosynthesis, a detailed characterization of the pathway is missing with only one mutant deficient for MEND having been analyzed. We took advantage of the fact that a double reduction of plastoquinone occurs in anoxia in the A1 site in the mend mutant, interrupting photosynthetic electron transfer, to isolate four new phylloquinone-deficient mutants impaired in MENA, MENB, MENC (PHYLLO) and MENE. Compared with the wild type and complemented strains for MENB and MENE, the four men mutants grow slowly in low light and are sensitive to high light. When grown in low light they show a reduced photosynthetic electron transfer due to a specific decrease of PSI. Upon exposure to high light for a few hours, PSI becomes almost completely inactive, which leads in turn to lack of phototrophic growth. Loss of PhQ also fully prevents reactivation of photosynthesis after dark anoxia acclimation. In silico analyses allowed us to propose a PhQ biosynthesis pathway in Chlamydomonas that involves 11 enzymatic steps from chorismate located in the chloroplast and in the peroxisome.
Short communication. Resistance to Phytophthora infestans in populations of wild potato species in the Sorata microcentre of genetic diversity, La Paz, Bolivia. Endemic wild potato species can be found in the Sorata microcentre of potato genetic diversity (Bolivia). This area, which lies at some 2640 m above sea level, is also a region of intensive phurejas potato cultivation. Pressure from the fungus Phytophthora infestans is high. In vitro experiments were performed to assess the resistance of the following potatoes to P. infestans: i) populations of the wild species Solanum acaule (S. acl), S. circaeifolium (S. crc-LA, S. crc-LB and S. crc-CO) and S. achacachense (S. ach), maintained at the Belén Research Station ex situ bank, ii) the reference species S. capsicibaccatum (S. cap), S. berthaultii (S. ber), S. toralapanum (S. tor) and S. sparsipilum (S. spl), and iii) susceptible cultivated varieties of S. phureja (S. phu) and S. tuberosum subsp. andigena (S. adg). The populations of S. acl, S. crc-LA, S. crc-LB and S. crc-CO showed high levels of resistance to P. infestans, while S. ach was very susceptible, in fact even more so than S. phu. S. tor was very resistant, while S. cap, S. ber and S. spl showed susceptibility similar to that of S. phu. The susceptible control S. adg showed the expected response to P. infestans, while that of S. phu was in agreement with its non-specific resistance to this pathogen.
Short-term carbon dioxide emissions and denitrification losses from soils amended with low-P manure from genetically modified pigs. Genetically modified pigs have been developed that are able to use phosphorus (P) in the feed more efficiently and thereby reduce the amount of P excreted in the manure. Improved digestibility would also change the chemical composition of the manure. The objective of this study was to determine how improved P digestibility affects the manure composition and the associated carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions and nitrogen (N) loss through denitrification when the manure is applied to soil. Aerobic and anaerobic incubation studies were conducted to evaluate CO2 emissions and denitrification losses from two soils (Brookston clay loam and Harrow sandy loam) amended with pig slurry (115 mg N kg-1 soil) from transgenic pigs as well as from conventional pigs. In addition, both the transgenic and conventional pigs were fed either a low-P diet or a conventional P diet, and the effects of diet type on CO2 emissions and denitrification losses were examined. Carbon dioxide emissions were 17% lower (P < 0.05) in treatments amended with transgenic pig manure compared with conventional pig manure in the clay loam soil. However, denitrification losses were increased by 37% (P < 0.05) in the clay loam soil amended with manure from transgenic pigs compared to manure from conventional pigs. Neither CO2 emissions nor N loss through denitrification were affected by pig genotype when the manure was added to the sandy loam soil. The diet type (conventional P diet or low-P diet) did not affect either CO2 emissions or N losses through denitrification in either the Brookston clay loam or Harrow sandy loam soils.
A comparison of four methods for minimizing total tardiness on a single processor with sequence dependent setup times. Much of the research on operations scheduling problems has either ignored setup times or assumed that setup times on each machine are independent of the job sequence. This paper considers the problem of scheduling a single machine for minimizing total tardiness in a sequence dependent setup environment. The comparative performance of branch-and-bound, genetic search, simulated annealing and random-start pairwise interchange was evaluated in this problem setting. The experimental results suggest that simulated annealing and random-start pairwise interchange are viable solution techniques that can yield good solutions to a large combinatorial problem when considering the tardiness objective with sequence dependent setup times. However, branch-and-bound may be the preferred solution technique in solving smaller problems, and it is the only solution technique tested that will confirm an optimum solution has been reached. The methods considered in this research offer promise to deal with a class of scheduling problems, which have been considered difficult by both researchers and practitioners.
Seeds in motion: Genetic assignment and hydrodynamic models demonstrate concordant patterns of seagrass dispersal. Movement is fundamental to the ecology and evolutionary dynamics within species. Understanding movement through seed dispersal in the marine environment can be difficult due to the high spatial and temporal variability of ocean currents. We employed a mutually enriching approach of population genetic assignment procedures and dispersal predictions from a hydrodynamic model to overcome this difficulty and quantify the movement of dispersing floating fruit of the temperate seagrass Posidonia australis Hook.f. across coastal waters in south-western Australia. Dispersing fruit cohorts were collected from the water surface over two consecutive years, and seeds were genotyped using microsatellite DNA markers. Likelihood-based genetic assignment tests were used to infer the meadow of origin for seed cohorts and individuals. A three-dimensional hydrodynamic model was coupled with a particle transport model to simulate the movement of fruit at the water surface. Floating fruit cohorts were mainly assigned genetically to the nearest meadow, but significant genetic differentiation between cohort and most likely meadow of origin suggested a mixed origin. This was confirmed by genetic assignment of individual seeds from the same cohort to multiple meadows. The hydrodynamic model predicted 60% of fruit dispersed within 20 km, but that fruit was physically capable of dispersing beyond the study region. Concordance between these two independent measures of dispersal provides insight into the role of physical transport for long distance dispersal of fruit and the consequences for spatial genetic structuring of seagrass meadows.
Stock specific relative abundance of Columbia River juvenile Chinook salmon off the Southeast Alaska coast. Migration patterns of juvenile Columbia River Chinook salmon (Oncorhynchus tshawytscha) differ among stocks and life history types, creating diverse marine distributions of these fish. This results in different stocks being subject to different ocean conditions during their first summer of marine residence, a time that is critical for their survival. Understanding their early marine distributions, and the conditions that affect their survival, may enhance conservation efforts for these stocks, many of which are protected under the Endangered Species Act. We analyzed juvenile Chinook salmon samples collected in trawls made from 2011 to 2015 off the southeastern (SE) Alaskan panhandle, and off the coasts of Washington and Oregon. We used genetic stock identification techniques to estimate stock proportions of juvenile Chinook salmon in each of these areas. Results indicated that most juvenile Chinook salmon in our SE Alaska coast study area in July originate from Columbia River spring-run stocks. We found a significant relationship in catch per unit effort (CPUE) over all stocks between the SE Alaska and the Washington and Oregon coast samples. In 2011, CPUE for Columbia River spring-run stocks for the SE Alaska coast was lower than for the Washington and Oregon coast, suggesting a differing level of marine mortality that year. We also found a significant relationship between juvenile CPUE of interior Columbia River spring-run stocks off the SE Alaska coast and adult counts at Bonneville Dam two years later. Our results provide marine life history, performance and survival information that supports management and recovery efforts for Columbia River Chinook salmon.
Antibiotic resistance: An impending crisis. The global emergence of antimicrobial resistance has become a pre-eminent concern in medicine and public health. Antimicrobial resistance is of particular concern because the problem is widespread, the causative factors are uncontrolled, and national strategies to address the problem are lacking. The persisting burden of infectious diseases makes elimination of antibiotic use unethical, but dramatic overuse and misuse of antimicrobial agents around the world must be reduced to extend the useful lifetimes of these drugs. Population genetic models suggest that resistance emerges rapidly under the selective pressure of antibiotics, but decays slowly once that pressure is removed. Hence, measures to prevent the emergence of resistance must be implemented urgently. A multiplicity of factors drive antibiotic resistance, and solutions require the collaboration of governmental agencies, the pharmaceutical companies, healthcare providers, and consumers. Leadership in the form of a national steering committee on antimicrobial resistance is needed in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to guide collective action to control the threat of antibiotic resistance.
Structure-immunomodulating activity relationships of a pectic arabinogalactan from Vernonia kotschyana Sch. Bip. ex Walp.. Structure and immunological characteristics of the pectic arabinogalactan Vk2a (previously reported as Vk100A2a) from the roots of Vernonia kotschyana Sch. Bip. ex Walp. were investigated after enzymatic digestion of the galacturonan moiety and the side chains of the rhamnogalacturonan structure of Vk2a. endo-α-D-(1→4)-Polygalacturonase digestion released the high molecular weight 'hairy region' (Vk2a-HR) and oligogalacturonides. Vk2a-HR consisted of GalA (4-linked) and Rha (2- or 2,4-linked) in a 1:1 ratio, with 60% of Rha branched at C-4. The Rha located in the rhamnogalacturonan core was branched randomly by Gal units. Vk2a-HR was rich in neutral sugars such as Araf 5- (12.2%) and 3,5-substituted (12.8%) and terminally- (14.1%) linked and Gal 4- (13.0%), 3- (0.9%), 6- (2.2%) and 3,6- (1.1%) substituted. Arabinans with chain lengths up to 11 units were identified. Araf residues were attached to C-3 of α-L-(1→5)-Araf chains and to C-4 of Gal residues. Single Gal units and chains of β-D-(1→6)-linked galacto di- to penta-saccharides were attached to a β-D-(1→3)-galactan core. All the enzyme resistant fractions expressed potent complement fixation and induction of B-cell mitogenic activity, and the present study indicates that there may be several and possibly structurally different active sites involved in the bioactivity of Vk2a. The bioactive sites may be located both in the more peripheral parts of the molecule but also in the inner core of the 'hairy region' or in larger enzyme-resistant chains.
Some descriptive epidemiologic features of central nervous system (CNS) neoplasms in childhood, in Manitoba, Canada.. In an attempt to describe epidemiologic features to generate etiological hypotheses and to study natural history, 121 cases of childhood CNS neoplasms under 15 years of age, occurring during 1950-66 in Manitoba, were analyzed. The incidence of CNS neoplasms in childhood (2.4/100 000 per annum) ranks second only to leukemia in Manitoba. For both sexes somewhat elevated incidences were noted for both extreme age groups; i.e. 0-4 and 10-14. Such peaks were more prominent for gliomas, which may indicate differential factors operation in the genesis of gliomas between early and late childhood. The former may be related to genetic and/or perinatal environmental factors and the latter, to environmental factors, in early childhood. Excess occurrences of gliomas among Irish, Scottish and Icelandic offsprings were observed, which possibly indicates the importance of either genetic or environmental factors peculiar to these ethnic groups. There was no evidence of time clustering (i.e. season and year) by estimated conception or by birth. Further investigation into the relative role of genetic and environmental factor in the genesis of childhood gliomas are in order.
Competition favours reduced cost of plasmids to host bacteria. Conjugative plasmids of Gram-negative bacteria have both vertical and horizontal modes of transmission: they are segregated to daughter cells during division, and transferred between hosts by plasmid-encoded conjugative machinery. Despite maintaining horizontal mobility, many plasmids carry fertility inhibition (fin) systems that repress their own conjugative transfer. To assess the ecological basis of self-transfer repression, we compared the invasion of bacterial populations by fin and fin variants of the plasmid R1 using a computational model and co-culture competitions. We observed that the fin variant had a modest cost to the host (measured by reduction in growth rate), while the fin variant incurred a larger cost. In simulations and empirical competitions the fin plasmid invaded cultures quickly, but was subsequently displaced by the fin plasmid. This indicated a competitive advantage to reducing horizontal transmission and allowing increased host replication. Computational simulations predicted that the advantage associated with reduced cost to the host would be maintained over a wide range of environmental conditions and plasmid costs. We infer that vertical transmission in concert with competitive exclusion favour decreased horizontal mobility of plasmids. Similar dynamics may exert evolutionary pressure on parasites, such as temperate bacteriophages and vertically transmitted animal viruses, to limit their rates of horizontal transfer.
Patterns of genetic and phenotypic variation in Iris haynei and I. atrofusca (Iris sect. Oncocyclus = the royal irises) along an ecogeographical gradient in Israel and the West Bank. Iris haynei and I. atrofusca are two closely related narrow endemics distributed vicariously along an ecogeographical north-south gradient in Israel and the West Bank. To obtain baseline information of the taxonomic status, conservation and population history of these taxa, we investigated patterns of phenotypic variation and the partitioning of genetic variation within and among populations using dominant random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers. Multivariate (principal components analysis) and taxonomic distance analyses based on morphometric traits from eight populations revealed no unambiguous separation into two distinct groups. Results of genetic analyses for nine populations differed only slightly when either allele- or marker-based approaches were employed. Mean within-population diversity was high (0.258 for Nei's expected heterozygosity), but there was no significant relationship between genetic diversity and either population size or latitude. Although the range-wide estimate of GST (≅ 0.20) revealed relatively high differentiation among populations this value was inflated because of a small, but significant, component of molecular variance among regions viz. taxa (≅ 5%). Limited long-distance dispersal capabilities in conjunction with a linearized habitat distribution are proposed to contribute to the approximate isolation by distance pattern observed. It also appears that extant populations are currently deviating from equilibrium conditions because of primary divergence of a formerly more widespread ancestral population. Given the absence of deep genetic and phenotypic subdivision among northern (I. haynei) vs. central/southern (I. atrofusca) populations, we argue for a revision of their species status. Nonetheless, we recommend conservation attention to these geographically differentiated segments as separate management units, which can be seen as an instructive example of incipient species formation.
Basidiospore formation in a mutant of incompatibility factors and in mutants that arrest at meta-anaphase I inCoprinus cinereus. The processes of meiosis and basidiospore formation in a double mutant ofA andB incompatibility factors ofCoprinus cinereus (Amut Bmut) have been shown to be fundamentally similar to those in the wild-type dikaryon except for a 1-h delay. Six sporulation-deficient mutants were induced in the Amut Bmut strain in which premeiotic DNA replication did not occur and meiosis was arrested at meta-anaphase I.
Suppression of rust and brown eye spot diseases on coffee by phosphites and by-products of coffee and citrus industries. The rust and brown eye spot, caused by Hemileia vastatrix and Cercospora coffeicola, respectively, are the most important fungal diseases on coffee in South America. Their management is mainly by chemical treatment, and there is no genetic resistance to brown eye spot known so far. Considering the need for developing alternative products for their control, the goal of this work was to evaluate the effects of phosphites and by-products of coffee and citrus industries on rust and brown eye spot. Formulations of coffee and citrus industry by-products, phosphites and their combination with fungicide were evaluated in field experiments, and their effect on fungal urediniospores and conidia was evaluated in vitro. In the field, treatments were applied individually or in combination and the in vitro assays were performed with manganese phosphite (Reforce Mn), potassium phosphite and citrus industry by-product (Fortaleza), copper phosphite and coffee industry by-product (Fitoforce Full), and fungicide. The severity and incidence of rust and brown eye spot on coffee leaves, yield, and leaf retention were evaluated in the field. Percentage of spore germination was evaluated in vitro for both fungi, whereas mycelial growth was evaluated for C. coffeicola only. The treatments Fortaleza, Reforce Mn and Fitoforce Full suppressed both diseases with a reduction in defoliation. In the year 2012, the plants treated with Reforce Mn and Reforce Mn + Fortaleza showed a yield increase of 72 and 88%, respectively, which was similar to the results shown by the fungicide treatment. In vitro inhibition of germination of H. vastatrix urediniospores and of C. coffeicola conidia was observed and suggests that the products exert some toxic effects to both fungi. Finally, the results observed indicate that the combined use of by-products of plant-processing industries and phosphites is an alternative and can be added efficiently to the management of coffee diseases.
A cloned kinetoplast DNA mini-circle fragment from a Leishmania spp. specific for post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis strains. DNA-DNA hybridization techniques have been found to be very useful in the classification and identification of Leishmania parasites. We report here the cloning of a mini-circle from Leishmania strain UR6 in a plasmid and subcloning of the mini-circle fragments in Ml3 mp9. Clone MLURk32, containing a 560 bp fragment of mini-circle, has been found to have unique specificity. Application of this specific probe in identifying different Leishmania isolates reveals that the probe reacted only with strains of post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis but not with strains or isolates of visceral leishmaniasis.
Research on residual GM optimization based on PEMEA-BP correction. With the advantages of small samples and high accuracy, Grey Model (GM) still has two major problems need to be addressed, high input data requirements and large margin of error. Hence, this paper proposes an algorithm based on Populational Entropy Based Mind Evolutionary Algorithm-Error Back Propagation Training Artificial Neural Algorithm to modify GM residual tail, which will not only keep the advantages of GM, but also expand its scope of use to various non-linear and even multidimensional objects. Meanwhile, it can avoid defects of other algorithms, such as slow convergence and easy to fall into the local minimum. In small samples data experiments, judging from SSE, MAE, MSE, MAPE, MRE and other indicators, this new algorithm has significant advantage over GM, BP algorithm and combined genetic algorithm in terms of simulation accuracy and convergence speed.
The virulence of a Dickeya dadantii 3937 mutant devoid of osmoregulated periplasmic glucans is restored by inactivation of the RcsCD-RcsB phosphorelay. Dickeya dadantii is a pectinolytic phytopathogen enterobacterium that causes soft rot disease on a wide range of plant species. The virulence of D. dadantii involves several factors, including the osmoregulated periplasmic glucans (OPGs) that are general constituents of the envelope of proteobacteria. In addition to the loss of virulence, opg-negative mutants display a pleiotropic phenotype, including decreased motility and increased exopolysaccharide synthesis. A nitrosoguanidine-induced mutagenesis was performed on the opgG strain, and restoration of motility was used as a screen. The phenotype of the opg mutant echoes that of the Rcs system: high level activation of the RcsCD-RcsB phosphorelay is needed to activate exopolysaccharide synthesis and to repress motility, while low level activation is required for virulence in enterobacteria. Here, we show that mutations in the RcsCDB phosphorelay system restored virulence and motility in a D. dadantii opg-negative strain, indicating a relationship between the Rcs phosphorelay and OPGs.
Effects of elevated temperature on coral reef fishes: Loss of hypoxia tolerance and inability to acclimate. Water temperature is expected to rise on coral reefs due to global warming. Here, we have examined if increased temperature reduces the hypoxia tolerance of coral reef fish (measured as critical [O2]), and if temperature acclimation in adults can change the resting rate of O2 consumption and critical [O2]. Two common species from Lizard Island (Great Barrier Reef, Australia) were tested, Doederlein's cardinalfish (Ostorhinchus doederleini) and lemon damselfish (Pomacentrus moluccensis). In both species, a 3 °C rise in water temperature caused increased oxygen consumption and reduced hypoxia tolerance, changes that were not reduced by acclimation to the higher temperature for 7 to 22 days. Critical [O2] increased by 71% in the cardinalfish and by 23% in the damselfish at 32 °C compared to 29 °C. The higher oxygen needs are likely to reduce the aerobic scope, which could negatively affect the capacity for feeding, growth and reproduction. The reduced hypoxia tolerance may force the fishes out of their nocturnal shelters in the coral matrix, exposing them to predation. The consequences for population and species survival could be severe unless developmental phenotypic plasticity within generations or genetic adaptation between generations could produce individuals that are more tolerant to a warmer future.
Scalability and robustness of parallel hyperheuristics applied to a multiobjectivised frequency assignment problem. The Frequency Assignment Problem (fap) is one of the key issues in the design of Global System for Mobile Communications (gsm) networks. The formulation of the fap used here focuses on aspects that are relevant to real gsm networks. In this paper, we adapt a parallel model to tackle a multiobjectivised version of the fap. It is a hybrid model which combines an island-based model and a hyperheuristic. The main aim of this paper is to design a strategy that facilitates the application of the current best-behaved algorithm. Specifically, our goal is to decrease the user effort required to set its parameters. At the same time, the usage of such an algorithm in parallel environments was enabled. As a result, the time required to attain high-quality solutions was decreased. We also conduct a robustness analysis of this parallel model. In this analysis we study the relationship between the migration stage of the parallel model and the quality of the resulting solutions. In addition, we also carry out a scalability study of the parallel model. In this case, we analyse the impact that the migration stage has on the scalability of the entire parallel model. Computational results with several real network instances have validated our proposed approach. The best-known frequency plans for two real-world network instances are improved with this strategy.
Indole acetic acid and ACC deaminase from endophytic bacteria improves the growth of Solanum lycopersicum. Background: Endophytic bacteria are ubiquitous in all plant species contributing in host plant’s nutrient uptake and helping the host to improve its growth. Moringa peregrina which is a medicinal plant, growing in arid region of Arabia, was assessed for the presence of endophytic bacterial strains. Results: PCR amplification and sequencing of 16S rRNA of bacterial endophytes revealed the 5 endophytic bacteria, in which 2 strains were from Sphingomonas sp.; 2 strains from Bacillus sp. and 1 from Methylobacterium genus. Among the endophytic bacterial strains, a strain of Bacillus subtilis LK14 has shown significant prospects in phosphate solubilization (clearing zone of 56.71 mm after 5 d), ACC deaminase (448.3 ± 2.91 nM α-ketobutyrate mg-1 h-1) and acid phosphatase activity (8.4 ± 1.2 nM mg-1 min-1). The endophytic bacteria were also assessed for their potential to produce indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). Among isolated strains, the initial spectrophotometry analysis showed significantly higher IAA production by Bacillus subtilis LK14. The diurnal production of IAA was quantified using multiple reactions monitoring method in UPLC/MS–MS. The analysis showed that LK14 produced the highest (8.7 μM) IAA on 14th d of growth. Looking at LK14 potentials, it was applied to Solanum lycopersicum, where it significantly increased the shoot and root biomass and chlorophyll (a and b) contents as compared to control plants. Conclusion: The study concludes that using endophytic bacterial strains can be bio-prospective for plant growth promotion, which might be an ideal strategy for improving growth of crops in marginal lands.
Complete mitochondrial genome of the whitetip reef shark Triaenodon obesus (Carcharhiniformes: Carcharhinidae). The complete mitochondrial genome of the whitetip reef shark Triaenodon obesus is determined in this study. It is 16,700 bp in length, with the typical gene composition, arrangement and transcriptional orientation in vertebrates. The overall base composition is 31.4% A, 25.8% C, 13.2% G and 29.7% T. Two start codons and two stop codons are found in the protein-coding genes. The 22 tRNA genes ranged from 67 to 75 nucleotides. The tRNA-Ser2 lost the DHU arm and could not be folded to the typical cloverleaf secondary structure. The origin of L-strand replication (OL) sequence was identified between tRNA-Asn and tRNA-Cys genes. The high A+T content of control region is due to a lot of poly A and poly T.
Diversity of echinostomes (Digenea: Echinostomatidae) in their snail hosts at high latitudes. The biodiversity of freshwater ecosystems globally still leaves much to be discovered, not least in the trematode parasite fauna they support. Echinostome trematode parasites have complex, multiple-host life-cycles, often involving migratory bird definitive hosts, thus leading to widespread distributions. Here, we examined the echinostome diversity in freshwater ecosystems at high latitude locations in Iceland, Finland, Ireland and Alaska (USA). We report 14 echinostome species identified morphologically and molecularly from analyses of nad1 and 28S rDNA sequence data. We found echinostomes parasitising snails of 11 species from the families Lymnaeidae, Planorbidae, Physidae and Valvatidae. The number of echinostome species in different hosts did not vary greatly and ranged from one to three species. Of these 14 trematode species, we discovered four species (Echinoparyphium sp. 1, Echinoparyphium sp. 2, Neopetasiger sp. 5, and Echinostomatidae gen. sp.) as novel in Europe; we provide descriptions for the newly recorded species and those not previously associated with DNA sequences. Two species from Iceland (Neopetasiger islandicus and Echinoparyphium sp. 2) were recorded in both Iceland and North America. All species found in Ireland are new records for this country. Via an integrative taxonomic approach taken, both morphological and molecular data are provided for comparison with future studies to elucidate many of the unknown parasite life cycles and transmission routes. Our reports of species distributions spanning Europe and North America highlight the need for parasite biodiversity assessments across large geographical areas.
Variation of characters in near-isogenic lines of wheat with added genes for leaf rust resistance. Using the cultivar Arina as the recurrent parent, six backcrosses were made with two donor lines carrying the leaf rust resistance genes Lr1 and Lr9, respectively. Selection for leaf rust resistance occurred at the seedling stage in the greenhouse; the first plants transferred to the field were BC6F4s. Frequency distribution of the 332 Lr1/7 × Arina and the 335 Lr9/7 × Arina lines showed continuous variation for yellow rust resistance and heading date in these leaf rust near-isogenic lines (NILs). Similar results were also obtained for plant height, for resistance to powdery mildew and glume blotch, as well as for baking quality characters in another set of more advanced NILs. The available information on the behaviour of one of the parents of cultivar Arina led to the conclusion that the expressed yellow rust resistance is quantitative and might possibly be durable.
A comparison of collinearity mitigation techniques used in predicting BLUP breeding values and genetic gains over generations. Collinearity potentially has a negative impact on the prediction of genetic gains in tree breeding programs. This study investigated the reliability and impact of best linear unbiased prediction (BLUP) using various collinearity mitigation techniques and of two computational numerical precisions on the genetic gains in breeding populations. Multiple-trait, multiple-trial BLUP selection scenarios were run on Eucalyptus grandis (F1 F2 and F3) and Pinus patula (F1 and F2) data, comparing predicted breeding values of parents (forward prediction) with those realised in progeny (backward prediction of parents). Numeric precision had an impact on intergenerational correlations of BLUPs of some scenarios, indicating that it may not always be optimal to use higher precision when there is collinearity in the data. The relative difference in genetic gains between techniques varied by up to 0.38 standard deviation units in the less-stable pine population. This highlights the potentially large impact that instability can have on the efficiency of a breeding programme. BLUP performed close to expected in the relatively stable (less collinear) population (eucalypt F.,), and performed poorly in the other two populations. In the unstable pine data, some of the techniques resulted in improved intergenerational correlations coming in line with expected performance. This study indicates that BLUP can perform as expected and also confirms the potential problem of instability and consequences thereof. BLUP users should examine the nature of the population of predicted values and should these be outside expectation, various mitigation techniques should be explored.
Mortality in FTD: An Australian perspective. THEME: Clinical manifestations TOPIC: Neuropsychiatry & beh neurology SUBTOPIC: Neuropsychiatry BACKGROUND: Survival duration in frontotemporal dementia (FTD) remains inconsistent, depending on the clinical phenotype with different risk factors identified. Risk factors to mortality include the FTD-MND presentation, a genetic predisposition (Agarwal S  2019), deficits in neuropsychological tests, imaging changes (Agarwal  2019; Hodges  2003) and non-tau pathology (Roberson  2005; Hodges  2003). We aimed to identify survival duration and cause of death in this group. METHOD: All inpatients admitted to Neuropsychiatry, based at the Royal Melbourne Hospital, in metropolitan Australia from 1992 - 2014, who were diagnosed with probably FTD of any subtype were included. Linkage data was obtained by the Australian Institute of Health and Welfare (AIHW). We reviewed their clinical information including demographics, age of symptom onset, type of presenting symptom, neuroimaging and diagnosis. RESULT: Of the 528 individual inpatients identified with a dementia, there were n=100 who had a diagnosis of probable FTD. There were n=76 who had a behavioural-variant FTD (bv-FTD), n=14 who had a language-variant FTD (lang-FTD) and n=10 who had FTD-MND. 67% of the group had died. Overall median duration of survival was 10.5 years (95% CI 7.9, 12.2). There were no differences in age of death nor age onset between the three FTD-subtypes (p=0.479, p=0.289, respectively). As expected, there were significant differences in the median survival duration of the three FTD subtypes, with FTD-MND having the shortest duration (p=0.004). Causes of death based on ICD-10 were predominantly dementia-related (26.3% Other degenerative diseases of nervous system; 17.5% unspecified dementia) but also included acute myocardial infarction (7%) and alcohol-related (7%). Standardised mortality ratios (SMRs) revealed that compared to population norms, people with FTD had 8x mortality rate. CONCLUSION: Not unsurprisingly, FTD-MND had the shortest duration compared to the other subtypes of FTD. The duration of survival was comparable to other studies. Causes of death revealed that a dementia was identified in almost half of cases. High SMRs suggest that FTD is a particularly "fatal" type of dementia in younger people. Investigation into risk factors to death is required.
Isolation and genetic analysis of bacterial mutations gpr blocking the replication of various lambda phages. Bacterial mutations affecting phi 80 DNA replication have been isolated and designated gpr2, 27. The main difference between gpr2, 27 and groP, grp mutations described earlier is that mutations gpr2, 27 are not essential for lambda replication. The mutations have been mapped between thr and leu loci in the vicinity of mutations groPC756 (dnaK gene) and groPC259 (dnaJ gene), their order being: thr-gpr2-groPC756-groPC259-gpr27. Complementation analysis using transducing phages suggested that mutations gpr2, 27 are localized in genes unknown earlier, outside dnaK and dnaJ genes.
Atyid shrimps of the genus Paracaridina (Crustacea, Decapoda, Atyidae) from Hunan Province, China. Three species of the genus Paracaridina (family Atyidae) are reported from Hunan Province, china, including P. chenxiensis sp. nov. A partial re-description of the type species of Paracaridina, P. longispina (Guo & He, 1992) is provided, as is a revised diagnosis of the genus. Caridina guizhouensis (Liang & Yan, 1986) is removed to Paracaridina and recorded for the first time from hunan.
An optimization approach for satellites formation reconfiguration based on Genetic algorithm. Aiming at the formation reconfiguration problem, a fuel-optimal coordinate control approach for formation maneuver while satisfying the constraint of inter-satellite safe distance was presented. First, took the constraint of inter-satellite safe distance into consideration, a modified fuel consumption performance index was put forward. Based on the Pontryagin maximum Principle, a formation reconfiguration mathematical model of two point boundary value problem is established. Then, took the duration of formation reconfiguration and initial states of satellites on target formation as optimized variables, and considered the states constraint of the end time of formation reconfiguration, the two point boundary value problem is solved numerically by searching the minimum value of the performance index based on Genetic Algorithm. In the end, mathematical simulation show that the optimal control model of formation reconfiguration is correct, and the method of solving the two point boundary value problem by Genetic Algorithm is effective.
Advancing the treatment of primary influent and effluent wastewater during wet weather flow by single versus powdered activated carbon-catalyzed ozonation for the removal of trace organic compounds. For the first time, single and PAC-catalyzed ozonation were explored for the wastewater treatment during wet weather flow in a prompt and efficient process. The effect of varying the ozone (O3) specific dose on the removal of micropollutants (MPs) was first investigated with a mixture of pharmaceuticals, herbicides and perfluorinated compounds in clean water. Most MPs showed higher affinity towards catalytic ozonation. Carbamazepine and Atrazine were found to be good surrogates for fast and slow reacting compounds, respectively. Applying single or PAC-catalyzed ozonation for 1 min only after coagulation was more efficient than applying them simultaneously. PAC-catalyzed ozonation was more efficient for the removal of organics and O3-resistant MPs. Both single and PAC-catalyzed ozonation achieved 4 log removal of E. coli, reduced the acute and genetic toxicity, and estrogenic activity of the wastewater. A detailed cost analysis revealed that applying single ozonation after coagulation costs between 0.06 and 0.32 $/m3 while applying PAC-catalyzed ozonation costs between 0.32 and 0.63 $/m3 for a flow rate between 100 and 600 MLD. Through a comprehensive performance assessment, PAC-catalyzed ozonation was deemed superior with one drawback related to the disposal of PAC.
Characterisation of polymorphic microsatellite markers isolated from Drakaea glyptodon Fitz. (Orchidaceae). Drakaea glyptodon is a sexually deceptive terrestrial orchid endemic to Western Australia. We developed fourteen polymorphic microsatellite markers to assess genetic variability within and among populations. Moderate to high levels of variation were detected at most loci. There was evidence for inbreeding with high inbreeding coefficients for some loci. This suite of markers will be used to assess population genetics and investigate the causes of rarity and speciation of Drakaea.
From graphs to spatial graphs. Graph theory is a powerful body of mathematical knowledge, based on simple concepts, in which structural units are depicted as nodes with relationships between them depicted as lines. The nodes may have qualitative and quantitative characteristics, and the edges may have properties such as weights and directions. Graph theory provides a flexible conceptual model that can clarify the relationship between structures and processes, including the mechanisms of configuration effects and compositional differences. Graph concepts apply to many ecological and evolutionary phenomena, including interspecific associations, spatial structure, dispersal in landscapes, and relationships within metapopulations and metacommunities. We review applications of graph theory in biology, emphasizing graphs with spatial contexts. We show how spatial graph properties can be used for description and comparison as well as to test specific hypotheses. We suggest that future applications should include explicit spatial elements for landscape studies of ecological, genetic and epidemiological phenomena.
Advances in cereal protoplast research. Beginning in 1986, plants have been regenerated from protoplasts of all of the important cereal species, including wheat, rice, maize, and barley, and grasses such as sugarcane. In addition, somatic hybrids/cybrids as well as transgenic plants with introduced useful agronomic traits have been obtained in several instances. This rapid and impressive progress in the genetic manipulation of cereals has been made possible by two critical technical advances during the past decade: the establishment of embryogenic suspension cultures as a source of totipotent protoplasts and the direct delivery of DNA into protoplasts for genetic transformation. 1992 Physiologia Plantarum
Morphology, Morphogenesis, and Phylogeny of Urosoma caudata (Ehrenberg, 1833) Berger, 1999 (Ciliophora, Hypotrichia) based on a Chinese Population. We report the morphology and morphogenesis of Urosoma caudata (Ehrenberg, 1833) Berger, 1999 based on in vivo observation and protargol impregnation and provide an improved diagnosis of U. caudata based on previous and current work. Urosoma caudata differs from its congeners mainly by the combination of the following features: tail-like posterior end, colorless cortical granules, and two macronuclear nodules. Urosoma caudata shares most of the ontogenetic features with its congeners: the oral primordium of the opisthe develops apokinetally, and the frontal-ventral-transverse cirral anlagen develop in five streaks. However, a unique morphogenetic characteristic is recognizable: the anlagen of three dorsal kineties occur de novo to the left of the parental structures differing from their intrakinetal origin in other Urosoma species. The first record of the 18S rRNA gene sequence for the species is also provided. Phylogenetic analyses based on 18S rRNA gene sequence data suggest that the genus Urosoma is a nonmonophyletic group.
Regulation of trehalose metabolism by Adox and AdoMet in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Effect of a potent methylation inhibitor oxidized adenosine (Adox), and a universal methyl group donor S-adenosyl-L-methionine (AdoMet) on trehalose metabolism was studied in two haploids of S. cerevisiae of mating types MATα, met3 (6460 -8D) and MATa, leu2, ura3, his4 (8534 -10A). Trehalose level decreased in presence of Adox in both strains. Both neutral trehalase (NT) and trehalose-6-phosphate (tre-6-p) synthase activities increased in presence of Adox in -8D strain. Decrease in trehalose level in -8D thus could not be explained in the light of increased tre-6-p synthase activity; however, it could be correlated with increased NT activity. In strain -10A, NT activity was reduced in presence of Adox while tre-6-p synthase activity increased. Enzyme activity profiles in -10A thus do not explain the reduced trehalose level on Adox treatment. Effect of AdoMet was not very prominent in either strain, though in -8D a small increase in trehalose level was seen on treatment. Intracellular AdoMet level of untreated cells of -10A was seen to be almost six times higher than that of -8D. Further, AdoMet treatment caused increase in its level compared to untreated cells, suggesting AdoMet uptake. No effect of either compound was seen on acid trehalase (AT) activity in any strain. The results suggest that there was a possible effect of demethylation on trehalose metabolism (particularly in the synthetic direction) in both strains, though effect of methylation was not very prominent, the reason for which is not very clear.
X-ray imaging and the skin: Radiation biology, patient dosimetry and observed effects. A wide variety of radiation-induced deterministic skin effects have been observed after X-ray guided interventions ranging from mild effects, such as transient erythema or temporary epilation, to severe effects, such as desquamation and necrosis. Radiation biologists have identified, in addition to absorbed dose to the skin, other factors that strongly influence the type and severity of a skin reaction, including exposure-related factors (dose rate, fractionation, the size of the exposed area and its site), biological factors (age, oxygen status, capillary density, hormonal status and genetic factors) and ethnic differences. A peak entrance skin dose of 2 Gy is an arbitrary, but pragmatic, threshold for radiation-induced skin effects after X-ray guided interventions. Transient skin injury originating in the epidermis is not expected in the average patient population at peak entrance skin doses up to 6 Gy. Serious skin effects are not likely to occur in clinical practice when optimised X-ray equipment is used in combination with good techniques for fluoroscopy and imaging. However, this might not be true for patients with biological factors that are associated with an increased sensitivity for radiation-induced skin reactions.
DNA Sequence Variation among Conspecific Accessions of the Legume Coursetia caribaea Reveals Geographically Localized Clades Here Ranked as Species. Coursetia caribaea is geographically and morphologically the most variable species in the genus Coursetia and in the tribe Robinieae (Leguminosae, Papilionoideae). Because of potentially undetected species, we assessed the phylogenetic relationships among the eight taxonomic varieties of C. caribaea. Sampling included nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer sequences from 489 Robinieae accessions representing all varieties of C. caribaea and 38 of the 40 species of Coursetia, in addition to chloroplast trnD-trnT sequences from 186 accessions. Separate and combined phylogenetic analyses resolved a clade of conspecific accessions of the Bolivian C. caribaea var. astragalina as sister to the central Andean Coursetia grandiflora clade. Also distantly related to Coursetia caribaea var. caribaea accessions were those of the coastal Oaxacan C. caribaea var. pacifica, which formed the sister clade to accessions of the central Andean C. caribaea var. ochroleuca. The estimated mean ages of the stem clades for these three lineages, 11, 7.7, and 7.7 Ma, respectively, contrasted to the estimated mean ages of the corresponding crown clades of 0, 0, and 1.5 Ma. The contrasting stem and crown ages suggest that these taxa, appropriately ranked as species, Coursetia astragalina, Coursetia diversifolia, and Coursetia ochroleuca, each have persisted over evolutionary time frames as distinct geographically localized populations in seasonally dry tropical forests and woodlands.
Microbiological quality and genotoxicity of domestic water sources: A combined approach using micro biological survey method and mutagenesis assay (micronucleus test) in root tips of vicia faba in the west region of cameroon. At least 2.1 billion people around the world use contaminated drinking water, causing 485,000 diarrheal deaths each year, mostly among children under 5 years old. A study conducted 10 years ago in Bafoussam (West Cameroon) recorded concentrations of bacteria among surface and groundwater. High levels of bicarbonates, phosphates, chlorides and suspended matters were also found. The aim of this study was to assess the microbiological and chemical qualities of domestic water sources in 5 localities of the West region of Cameroon. Water samples from 22 water sources (wells, springs, water drilling and river) were aseptically collected in plastic bottles and transferred in 50 ml sterile tubes. For chlorinated water sources, 1 ml of Thiosulfate was added to the water sample; immediately placed in an ice box and transported to the laboratory for analysis. Water temperature and pH were measured on site. The microbiological quality of water was determined by testing Total Coliforms (TC) using the Micro Biological Survey method. 1 ml of each water sample was inoculated in the MBS vial initially rehydrated with 10 ml of sterile distilled water. The initial color of the vials is red. Color changes were monitored at three different time intervals (12h, 19h and 24h), corresponding to three levels of contamination. The chemical quality of water was assessed using micronucleus (MN) test in selected Vicia faba seeds secondary root tips permanently mounted in Dibutylphthalate Polystyrene Xylene mountant for histology after 72 hours of direct exposition in water samples and in dark. The mitotic indices and MN frequencies were evaluated in 10 root tips per site analysing 5000 cells per tip. Statistical analyses were done using Stata IC/15.0 software. The Student t-Test was used for mean comparison and the significance level was set at 1%. The majority of samples were collected from wells (63.6%). The mean water pH ranged from 5.5 to 8.3 and the temperature varied from 23 to 26C. A very high concentration of TC [103 CFU/ml] was found in 8 (36.4%) samples. 10 (45.5%) and 2 (9.1%) samples turned yellow at 19 and 24 hours respectively after incubation corresponding to TC concentration of [10x103 CFU/ml] and [1x 10 CFU/ml]. The MN frequency was higher (P 0.01) compared to the negative control in 9 (40.9%) water samples indicating significant genotoxic effects of these water sources. This study highlighted the poor quality of domestic water sources in West region of Cameroon and the need to conduct regular monitoring of drinking water sources. Community capacity building on water treatment methods, including good wastes management should be implemented to help improve water quality.
Optimization of cement spacer rheology model using genetic algorithm. The primary job of cement is a critical step in successful well completion. To achieve effective cementing job, complete mud removal from the annular space is recommended. Spacer and flushers are used widely to achieve this goal. This study is about weighted cement spacer systems containing a surfactant package, weighting agent and rheological modifiers. Weighted spacer systems are utilized when a high formation fluid pressure is expected inside the wellbore. A testing program is conducted in laboratory to determine the spacer fluid rheological properties at different temperatures. The measured rheological properties are estimated using the known rheological models. Each model is firstly optimized using genetic algorithm as an optimization tool and then the rheological properties are modeled. The performance of the genetic algorithm is then tested by comparing the real laboratory data and modeled data. The results show that the polymer based spacer systems are better described using Herschel Bulkley Model. Also, it is concluded that the genetic algorithm with a good formulation can be used as an effective optimization tool to predict the rheological properties of the spacer systems.
Surface Modification Chemistries of Materials Used in Diagnostic Platforms with Biomolecules. Biomolecules including DNA, protein, and enzymes are of prime importance in biomedical field. There are several reports on the technologies for the detection of these biomolecules on various diagnostic platforms. It is important to note that the performance of the biosensor is highly dependent on the substrate material used and its meticulous modification for particular applications. Therefore, it is critical to understand the principles of a biosensor to identify the correct substrate material and its surface modification chemistry. The imperative surface modification for the attachment of biomolecules without losing their bioactivity is a key to sensitive detection. Therefore, finding of a modification method which gives minimum damage to the surface as well as biomolecule is highly inevitable. Different surface modification technologies are invented according to the type of a substrate used. Surface modification techniques of the materials used as platforms in the fabrication of biosensors are reviewed in this paper.
Evolution of carbapenemase-producing Enterobacteriaceae at the global and national level: What should be expected in the future?. In recent years, Enterobacteriaceae isolates have increased their potential to become highly drug resistant by acquiring resistance to carbapenems, primarily due to the production of acquired carbapenemases. The carbapenemases detected in Enterobacteriaceae are largely of the KPC, VIM, NDM, IMP and OXA-48 types. Although the epidemiological origin and geographic distribution of carbapenemases are clearly different, they all first appeared in the late 20th Century. Only a decade later, these enzymes have already become established and have expanded globally. An important epidemiological change has occurred in Spain in recent years, characterized by a rapid increase in the number of cases of carbapenemase-producing Enterobacteriaceae (CPE), causing both nosocomial outbreaks and single infections. The impact of CPE in Spain is primarily due to OXA-48-producing and VIM-1-producing Klebsiella pneumoniae isolates, although other species such as Escherichia coli and Enterobacter cloacae are also increasing. The emergence of CPE as a cause of community-onset infections is a matter of great concern. Taking into account recent experience, and considering the fact that increasing numbers of patients are becoming infected by CPE and reservoirs of carbapenemases are growing globally, the trend of the CPE epidemic points toward a rise in its incidence. To prevent a massive CPE pandemic, a well-coordinated response from all health professionals and national and supranational authorities is clearly needed.
Task Assignment Strategy for Serial Coupling Product Design Based on MWTM. The task assignment strategy for serial coupling product design, which involved the rework of tasks, was very complex. To solve the problem, the MWTM was introduced to quantify the coupling relations among the tasks in rework amounts. Based on the task assignment derivative matrix, a model of the task assignment for serial coupling product design was built. This model was solved by genetic algorithm and so the optimal task assignment strategy of product design might be obtained for different design requirements. Taking the development of an electric car as an example, validity and feasibility of this model were proved.
Economic assessment of wheat breeding options for potential improved levels of post head-emergence frost tolerance. Frost, during reproductive developmental stages, especially post head emergence frost (PHEF), can result in catastrophic yield loss for wheat producers. Breeding for improved PHEF tolerance may allow greater yield to be achieved, by (i) reducing direct frost damage and (ii) facilitating earlier crop sowing to reduce the risk of late-season drought and/or heat stress. This paper provides an economic feasibility analysis of breeding options for PHEF tolerant wheat varieties. It compares the economic benefit to growers with the cost of a wheat breeding program aimed at developing PHEF tolerant varieties. The APSIM wheat model, with a frost-impact and a phenology gene-based module, was employed to simulate direct and indirect yield benefits for various levels of improved frost tolerance. The economic model considers optimal profit, based on sowing date and nitrogen use, rather than achieving maximum yield. The total estimated fixed cost of breeding program was AUD 1293 million, including large scale seed production to meet seed demand, with AUD 1.2 million year−1 to run breeding program after advanced development and large scale field experiments. The results reveal that PHEF tolerant varieties would lead to a significant increase in economic benefits through reduction in direct damage and an increase in yield through early sowing. The economic benefits to growers of up to AUD 4841 million could be realised from growing PHEF tolerant lines if useful genetic variation can be found. Sensitivity analyses indicated that the benefits are particularly sensitive to increases in fixed costs, seed replacement, discount rate, and to delays in variety release. However, the investment still remains viable for most tested scenarios. Based on comparative economic benefits, if breeders were able to develop PHEF tolerant varieties that could withstand cold temperatures −4 °C below the current damage threshold, there is very little further economic value of breeding total frost tolerant varieties.
Aluminum tolerance of wheat cultivars and relation to arbuscular mycorrhizal colonization in a non-limed and limed Andisol. Wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) cultivars vary extensively in their response to acidic soils. In southern Chile, wheat genotypes have been selected for growth on acidic Andisols where high concentrations of phytotoxic aluminum (Al) limit plant growth. Previous work indicates that arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi play an important role protecting plant roots against the deleterious effects of Al. To understand interactions between AM fungi and cultivar Al phytotoxicity, six locally used wheat cultivars (‘Bakan’, ‘Crac’, ‘Invento’, ‘Maxi’, ‘Otto’, and ‘Porfiado’) were cultivated in a non-limed and limed Andisol (74 and 5% Al saturation, respectively). Plant harvests were carried out at two phonological stages: tillering (60 days after sowing, DAS) and physiological maturity (150 DAS). Plant growth was limited on non-limed soil, but varied by cultivar. Among the cultivars, ‘Porfiado’ and ‘Crac’ exhibited growth traits consistently associated with acidic soil resistance, including greater biomass and root length and higher P/Al and Ca/Al ratios in plants grown in non-limed soil. Wheat growth was positively correlated with AM colonized root length and Al bound to glomalin related soil protein (Al-GRSP). In addition, root Al concentration was negatively correlated with colonized root length and Al-GRSP across all wheat cultivars grown under high Al saturation. The significantly better performance of wheat cultivars and their association with AM fungal traits on non-limed soils indicates that indigenous AM fungal populations in acidic soils may contribute to Al tolerance of some wheat cultivars when growing at high Al levels.
Synthesis and evaluation of a new series of spiro aryl dioxolane compounds: A new scaffold as potential poly(ADP-ribose)polymerase-1 (PARP-1) inhibitors. A new series of spiro aryl dioxolane derivatives were synthesized and evaluated to find a new scaffold as potential poly(ADP-ribose)polymerases-1 (PARP-1) inhibitors. This key starting compound, 2,6-bis(methoxybenzylidene)cyclohexanone, was functionalized with different nucleophilic reagents via cyclocondensation reactions to obtain new benzylidene scaffolds containing diverse aryl groups such as spiroindazoleorquinazoline [1,3]dioxolane compounds. Furthermore, the Michael addition reaction of bis-benzylidene with some active methylene compounds afforded spirochromene- or naphthalene-[1,3]dioxolane compounds. All the synthesized compounds revealed promising inhibition with IC50 values in the nanomolar range (0.997–2.698 nM), not significantly different from that of Olaparib (IC50 = 0.861 nM). Compounds 5b and 15 (IC50 = 1.009 and 0.997 nM) showed the highest potency among all the prepared compounds and accordingly their ability to inhibit the growth of BRCA1 mutated breast cancer cell line MDA-MB-436 was tested, where compound 5b (IC50 = 0.67 μM) showed a potency ten folds higher than that of Olaparib but compound 15 (IC50 = 7.47 μM) exerted lower activity but still comparable to that of Olaparib (IC50 = 6.84 μM). Both resulted in the arrest of cell cycle at S phase and caused cell apoptosis. In silico studies including absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion (ADME) properties, drug-likeness, and molecular docking were carried out to support the above-mentioned findings. This work presents compounds 5b and 15 as promising scaffolds as PARP-1 inhibitors.
Multi-Robot Cooperative Task Allocation with Definite Path-Conflict-Free Handling. Modeling and solving multi-robot task allocation with definite path-conflict-free handling is an important research, especially in real working environments. Some of the research lines are unable to obtain definite path-conflict-free solutions for multi-robot task allocations, such as using the penalty-term method in the fitness function to restrict the survival probabilities of the solutions with path conflicts. In some cases, these solutions are only able to satisfy the objective of minimizing task time. We formulate this problem based on grid maps, while focusing on the frequently used cooperative task allocation. In our model, two subtasks of each cooperative task must be executed by two robots, simultaneously. We propose vitality-driven genetic task allocation algorithm (VGTA), which is able to simultaneously minimize task time and realize definite conflict-free path planning. VGTA consists of local operators, such as random mutations, greedy crossovers, and vitality selection. Meanwhile, VGTA includes schedule conflict and path conflict handling strategies. In path conflict handling strategy, we not only consider the common path conflicts in a grid cell, but also focus on the path conflicts between robots when exchanging positions in the adjacent grid cells. Besides, we construct our benchmarks based on real working environments, such as factory, powerhouse, and airport environments. Experimental results indicate that VGTA's search capability and computation cost are satisfactory. Meanwhile, its solutions are able to be really executed.
Biosynthesis and mobilization of a novel polyhydroxyalkanoate containing 3-hydroxy-4-methylvalerate monomer produced by Burkholderia sp. USM (JCM15050). We attempted to synthesize a polyhydroxyalkanoate (PHA) containing newly reported 3-hydroxy-4-methylvalerate (3H4MV) monomer by using wild type Burkholderia sp. USM (JCM15050) and its transformed strain harboring the PHA synthase gene of Aeromonas caviae (phaCAc). The introduction of 3H4MV as a second monomer will improve the material properties of 3HB-based polymers. To promote the accumulation of PHA containing 3H4MV monomer, isocaproic acid was provided as co-carbon source. Approximately 1. mol% of 3H4MV was detected in wild type Burkholderia sp. cultures when they were fed glucose or fructose together with isocaproic acid. Thus, the wild type strain can synthesize the 3H4MV monomer. High 3H4MV fractions, of about 40. mol%, were obtained when the transformed strain was cultivated on glucose or fructose together with isocaproic acid. In addition, the ability of the transformed strain to mobilize accumulated PHA containing 3H4MV monomer was demonstrated in this study. This is the first report on mobilization of the 3H4MV monomer.
An inventory model for a deteriorating item with displayed stock dependent demand under fuzzy inflation and time discounting over a random planning horizon. An inventory model for a deteriorating item (seasonal product) with linearly displayed stock dependent demand is developed in imprecise environment (involving both fuzzy and random parameters) under inflation and time value of money. It is assumed that time horizon, i.e., period of business is random and follows exponential distribution with a known mean. The resultant effect of inflation and time value of money is assumed as fuzzy in nature. The particular case, when resultant effect of inflation and time value is crisp in nature, is also analyzed. A genetic algorithm (GA) is developed with roulette wheel selection, arithmetic crossover, random mutation. For crisp inflation effect, the total expected profit for the planning horizon is maximized using the above GA to derive optimal inventory decision. On the other hand when inflationary effect is fuzzy then the above expected profit is fuzzy in nature too. Since optimization of fuzzy objective is not well defined, the optimistic/pessimistic return of the expected profit is obtained using possibility/necessity measure of fuzzy event. Fuzzy simulation process is proposed to determine this optimistic/pessimistic return. Finally a fuzzy simulation based GA is developed and is used to maximize the above optimistic/pessimistic return to get optimal decision. The models are illustrated with some numerical examples and some sensitivity analyses have been presented.
The complete chloroplast genome sequence of Tetrastigma hemsleyanum Diels at Gilg. The complete chloroplast genome sequence of Tetrastigma hemsleyanum Diels at Gilg, a critical Chinese medicine, is reported here. The complete chloroplast genome of Tetrastigma hemsleyanum Diels at Gilg is 159 914 bp in length with 37.55% overall GC content. A pair of IRs (inverted repeats) of 26 510 bp were separated by LSC (87 927 bp) and SSC (18 967 bp). The phylogenetic analysis of 40 taxa showed a strong sister relationship with all other rosids. However, the placement of Myrtales still needs further verification.
Identification of candidate genes involved in steroidal alkaloids biosynthesis in organ-specific transcriptomes of Veratrum nigrum L.. Veratrum nigrum is protected plant of Melanthiaceae family, able to synthetize unique steroidal alkaloids important for pharmacy. Transcriptomes from leaves, stems and rhizomes of in vitro maintained V. nigrum plants were sequenced and annotated for genes and markers discovery. Sequencing of samples derived from the different organs resulted in a total of 108,511 contigs with a mean length of 596 bp. Transcripts derived from leaf and stalk were annotated at 28%, and 38% in Nr nucleotide database, respectively. The sequencing revealed 949 unigenes related with lipid metabolism, including 73 transcripts involved in steroids and genus-specific steroid alkaloids biosynthesis. Additionally, 3203 candidate SSRs markers we identified in unigenes with average density of one SSR locus every 6.2 kb sequence. Unraveling of biochemical machinery of the pathway responsible for steroidal alkaloids will open possibility to design and optimize biotechnological process. The transcriptomic data provide valuable resources for biochemical, molecular genetics, comparative transcriptomics, functional genomics, ecological and evolutionary studies of V. nigrum.
Estimation of the intrinsic rate of natural increase and its error by both algebraic and resampling approaches. The intrinsic rate of natural increase or Malthusian parameter plays a key role fields as diverse as ecology, genetics, demography and evolution. It characterizes the growth of a population in a determinate environment. Since its rigorous statistical estimation requires of intensive calculation, the use of a computer becomes essential. The two main approaches to the calculation of the Malthusian parameter, its error and confidence intervals have been implemented in a program and have been compared by means of an example.
Pilot-scale subcritical-water extraction of nodakenin and decursin from Angelica gigas Nakai. Active components were extracted from Angelica gigas Nakai by subcritical-water extraction (SWE) with the purpose of determining how the extraction conditions affect the SWE of antioxidant properties and active components (nodakenin and decursin), and to compare pilot-scale SWE (8 L) and conventional extraction methods. The extraction yields of nodakenin and decursin in the pilot-scale system were highest at 150 °C for 10 min and 190 °C for 15 min, respectively. The extraction yield of decursin increased as the stirring speed was increased to 200–250 rpm. Pearson’s correlation indicated that the radical-scavenging activities using DPPH and ABTS assays were more sensitive to the Maillard reaction (R2 = 0.822 and 0.933, respectively) than to the total phenolic contents (R2 = 0.486 and 0.724, respectively). The extraction yield of decursin was higher when using conventional extraction methods than for SWE.
Advances in HIV laboratory testing.. Laboratory tests are readily available for the diagnosis of HIV infection. These are based on the detection of HIV-specific antibodies and HIV p24 antigen in combination screening assays, followed by confirmation by Western blot. Managing established HIV infection, including the use of antiretroviral drugs, has been facilitated by the use of nucleic acid tests that measure HIV RNA load in plasma or detect mutations associated with drug resistance. Quality assurance programs ensure high-level performance of HIV assays.
Systematic relationships of Oriental tiny frogs of the family Microhylidae (Amphibia, Anura) as revealed by mtDNA genealogy. We estimated the genealogical relationships and assessed systematic relationships among 45 out of 89 named species and four unnamed taxa from 11 of 14 genera of the Oriental microhylids from 1767. bp sequences of the mitochondrial DNA genes 12S rRNA and 16S rRNA using maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian inference methods. Monophyly was rejected for the subfamily Microhylinae, and our data reveal four well-supported clades whose relationships to each other are unresolved: (A) Microhyla, Calluella, and Glyphoglossus, (B) Chaperina, (C) Kaloula, Phrynella, and Metaphrynella, and (D) Micryletta. They were genetically as divergent from each other as from another Oriental subfamily Kalophryninae, and could be recognized as distinct subfamilies. Within Clade A, our data reveal three well-supported subclades whose relationships to each other are unresolved: (AI) Microhyla-I, (AII) Calluella and Glyphoglossus, and (AIII) Microhyla-II. Of the two enigmatic Malaysian genera, whose subfamilial placement has been undetermined, Phrynella was found to be the sister species of Metaphrynella in Clade C, whereas Gastrophrynoides was grouped in the Papua-Australian subfamily Asterophryinae. Currently recognized subgenera and species groups within Microhyla based on morphology were not supported phylogenetically, and require thorough reassessments.
The major psychoses. Schizophrenia and the manic depressive or affective psychoses are the major mental disorders of adult life in which genetic factors have been established as playing an important part. The life time expectancy for someone from the general population developing schizophrenia is probably best taken to be around 1%. Problems of diagnosis and heterogeneity are even greater in the case of the affective psychoses. Bipolar manic depressive psychosis is probably less frequent than schizophrenia and simple unipolar endogenous depression more frequent, but it is difficult to give a firm figure because of the difficulty in drawing a firm line between the endogenous and reactive. The total expectancy for any of these schizophrenic or affective psychoses may be somewhere approaching 5%. To this one should add something like 2.5% for senile dementia, given survival to the age of 80. Among the major psychoses the morbid risk for the children in schizophrenia (about 10%) is lower than that in manic depressive psychosis, but schizophrenia must be regarded as the more detrimental condition. Most current theories do not rely on new mutations for maintaining disorders like schizophrenia in the population. The genes involved are probably polymorphic, i.e. have a frequency of more than 1% in the gene pool. Instead, selective advantage of heterozygotes is invoked or, alternatively, a compensating minor reduction in fitness of the nonschizophrenic alleles in other polygenic settings. If aetiology is multifactorial the psychoses may be relatively insensitive to changes in mutation rate.
Sex Matters: Effects of Sex and Mating in the Presence and Absence of a Protective Microbe. In most animals, female investment in offspring production is greater than for males. Lifetime reproductive success (LRS) is predicted to be optimized in females through extended lifespans to maximize reproductive events by increased investment in immunity. Males, however, maximize lifetime reproductive success by obtaining as many matings as possible. In populations consisting of mainly hermaphrodites, optimization of reproductive success may be primarily influenced by gamete and resource availability. Microbe-mediated protection (MMP) is known to affect both immunity and reproduction, but whether sex influences the response to MMP remains to be explored. Here, we investigated the sex-specific differences in survival, behavior, and timing of offspring production between feminized hermaphrodite (female) and male Caenorhabditis elegans following pathogenic infection with Staphylococcus aureus with or without MMP by Enterococcus faecalis. Overall, female survival decreased with increased mating. With MMP, females increased investment into offspring production, while males displayed higher behavioral activity. MMP was furthermore able to dampen costs that females experience due to mating with males. These results demonstrate that strategies employed under pathogen infection with and without MMP are sex dependent.
Filarial nematode (order: Spirurida) surveillance in urban habitats, in the city of Pécs (Hungary). As part of the seasonal mosquito control activities in the city of Pécs (Baranya County, Hungary), a total of 1123 adult female mosquitoes belonging to 18 species (including the invasive species Aedes koreicus) were collected from human-inhabited areas, using CO2-baited traps, during two consecutive years. To survey the presence and prevalence of filarial parasites in these mosquitoes, we performed a molecular survey for filarial DNA, attempted by PCR using generic primers (COI), and followed by DNA sequencing. Filaroid nematode DNA was detected in 4% of investigated mosquito pools. Out of 410 pools, 9 pools of mosquitoes were positive for Dirofilaria repens (Aedes vexans, Aedes koreicus, Coquillettidia richiardii), and/or Dirofilaria immitis (Ae. vexans, Cq. richiardii), and further 8 pools were positive for Setaria tundra (Ae. vexans, Cq. richiardii). Our study provides novel insight for prevalence of filaroid nematodes in mosquitoes occurring in close proximity to humans, thereby highlights the possible human and veterinary health importance of these mosquito species, including the recently introduced invasive mosquito Ae. koreicus.
Analyzing Errors due to Measurement Positions and Sampling Locations for In Situ Measurements of Soil Organic Matter Using Vis-NIR Spectroscopy. Due to the heterogeneity of soil, there are spectral differences between different measurement positions of a soil sample and among different samples of a soil genetic layer. As a result, an estimated value of a soil property using in situ spectra of soil inevitably has errors. However, these errors have not been revealed so far. In this paper, 80 soil profiles and 38 soil surface samples were collected twice with cutting ring from a small area of woodland in typical hilly areas in southern China. Then, the soil organic matter content was measured by in-situ spectrometry and traditional laboratory method, so as to analyze the estimation error of soil organic matter content caused by different spectral test points and sampling locations. The results show that, the spectral difference of each sample at a total of 18 test points ranges from 0.12° to 8.13°, with an average value of 1.55°. The spectral difference between two repeated sampling locations of each sample is 0.18°~3.65°, with an average value of 0.88°. The estimated error of soil organic matter due to the different positions of test points was 0.92~14.66 g•kg-1, accounting for 3.8%~428% of the measured organic matter content. The estimation error of soil organic matter caused by different sampling locations is 0.005 7~11.46 g•kg-1, accounting for 0.017%~92% of the measured organic matter. Moreover, the error caused by the former is larger than that caused by the partial least squares regression model used in this paper, while the error caused by the latter is slightly smaller than that caused by this model. In addition, it is found that these two errors increase with the increase of measured organic matter content. Hence, this paper argues that the errors caused by different test points and sampling locations should be paid attention to in future studies, especially in soils with higher organic matter content, and calls for research on more effective methods to reduce these errors.
Patterns of species and phylogenetic diversity of Pinus tabuliformis forests in the eastern Loess Plateau, China. Pinus tabuliformis forests are major components of temperature coniferous forests in North China. These forests harbor a remarkable richness of both animal and plant taxa while providing multiple goods and services. However, the species distribution patterns and the underlying mechanisms of community assembly for P. tabuliformis forests are still not very well understood. We analyzed the distribution patterns, construction, and main drivers of P. tabuliformis forests based on 113 forest plots (20 m × 30 m) in the mountain areas of Shanxi, in the eastern Loess Plateau, China. Our findings indicated the plant flora composition was rich, but significantly different among different mountain areas. A total of 357 species belonging to 227 genera, 71 families, 36 orders, 4 classes, and 3 phyla were recorded in the 113 plots. The species richness (SR) and phylogenetic diversity (PD) of the natural forests were higher than that of the artificial forests. The main influence factors of PD and the net relatedness index (NRI) were the natural environment, and then forest type and forest structure, and the relative roles were different for woody and herbaceous species in the different areas. Overall, the primary environmental drivers of PD were topographic conditions, including slope and slope position, followed by total phosphorus and water factors. The topographic and soil variables had primary impacts on the PD and NRI patterns on Mount Luliang, while climate and soil variables had strong independent effects on PD and NRI patterns on Mount Taihang. In addition, the differences in forest type and structure had strong effects in determining PD and NRI patterns in the plant community. The tendency of increasing phylogenetic clustering along the temperature gradient indicated that environmental filtering played an important role in community assembly at a broad scale. The differences of PD and NRI between artificial and natural forests indicated that forest origin, microhabitat, and interspecific competition played an important role in the PD and NRI patterns at a local scale. Our results indicated that conservation projects have been effective for conservation and restoration of the P. tabuliformis forests. However, some problems still need to be addressed in afforestation, management, and exploitation.
Prevalence of rickettsia-like organisms and spotted fever group rickettsiae in ticks (Acari: Ixodidae) from Zimbabwe.. The prevalence of rickettsia-like organisms in ticks from Zimbabwe was determined using the hemolymph test. Amblyomma hebraeum had the highest prevalence of rickettsia-like organisms. Other species with rickettsia-like organisms included Amblyomma sparsum, Amblyomma variegatum, Hyalomma marginatum rufipes, Ripicephalus simus, Haemaphysalis leachi, Amblyomma rhinocerotis, and Hyalomma truncatum. Ticks with no demonstrable rickettsia-like organisms infection were Boophilus decoloratus, Haemaphysalis spinulosa, Rhipicephalus appendiculatus, Rhipicephalus evertsi evertsi, and Rhipicephalus sanguineus. Polymerase chain reaction followed by restriction fragment-length polymorphism analysis on samples of hemolymph-positive ticks showed the agent of African tick-bite fever to be present in A. hebraeum, Rickettsia conorii to be present in Rhipicephalus simus and Haemaphysalis leachi, and a spotted fever group rickettsia similar to that in Hyalomma marginatum marginatum ticks from Morocco and Portugal to be present in Hyalomma marginatum rufipes.
Fatal pneumonia following inoculation of healthy bighorn sheep with Pasteurella haemolytica from healthy domestic sheep.. In a series of three experiments, isolates of Pasteurella haemolytica biotype A, serotype 2, ribotype reference WSU-1, from healthy domestic sheep, were inoculated intratracheally into eight bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis canadensis) and seven domestic sheep with doses of bacteria ranging from 5.3 x 10(8) to 8.6 x 10(11) colony forming units. Seven of eight inoculated bighorn sheep died from acute pneumonia within 48 hr of inoculation, whereas all seven domestic sheep inoculated with comparable or greater doses of bacteria remained healthy. One contact control bighorn sheep also died 6 days after its penmates received P. haemolytica. Three other noncontact control bighorn sheep remained healthy during the experiments. Pasteurella haemolytica biotype A, serotype 2, ribotype reference WSU-1 in the inocula was recovered from one or more tissues from all bighorns that died; whereas, it was not detected in any bighorn sheep before inoculation. Three different ribotypes of P. haemolytica A2 were recovered from bighorn sheep; however, only the ribotype reference WSU-1 in the domestic sheep-origin inoculum was recovered from all dead bighorn sheep, and was not recovered from bighorn sheep that survived the experiments. Thus, a relatively nonpathogenic and common isolate of P. haemolytica from healthy domestic sheep was lethal in bighorn sheep under experimental conditions.
Modeling the Potential Economic Impact of the Medicare Comprehensive Care for Joint Replacement Episode-Based Payment Model. Background: The Medicare program has initiated Comprehensive Care for Joint Replacement (CJR), a bundled payment mandate for lower extremity joint replacements. We sought to determine the degree to which hospitals will invest in care redesign in response to CJR, and to project its economic impacts. Methods: We defined 4 potential hospital management strategies to address CJR: no action, light care management, heavy care management, and heavy care management with contracting. For each of 798 hospitals included in CJR, we used hospital-specific volume, cost, and quality data to determine the hospital's economically dominant strategy. We aggregated data to assess the percentage of hospitals pursuing each strategy; savings to the health care system; and costs and percentages of CJR-derived revenues gained or lost for Medicare, hospitals, and postacute care facilities. Results: In the model, 83.1% of hospitals (range 55.0%-100.0%) were expected to take no action in response to CJR, and 16.1% of hospitals (range 0.0%-45.0%) were expected to pursue heavy care management with contracting. Overall, CJR is projected to reduce health care expenditures by 0.5% (range 0.0%-4.1%) or $14 million (range $0-$119 million). Medicare is expected to save 2.2% (range 2.2%-2.2%), hospitals are projected to lose 3.7% (range 4.7% loss to 3.8% gain), and postacute care facilities are expected to lose 6.5% (range 0.0%-12.8%). Hospital administrative costs are projected to increase by $63 million (range $0-$148 million). Conclusion: CJR is projected to have a negligible impact on total health care expenditures for lower extremity joint replacements. Further research will be required to assess the actual care management strategies adopted by CJR hospitals.
High relatedness and inbreeding at the origin of eusociality in gall-inducing thrips. Within the haplodiploid eusocial gall-inducing thrips, a species-level phylogeny combined with genetic data for five eusocial species enables an inference of levels of relatedness and inbreeding values for lineages at the origin of eusociality. Character optimization using data from five eusocial species indicates that the lineage or lineages where eusociality is inferred to have originated exhibit relatedness of 0.64-0.92, and FIS of 0.33-0.64. The high inbreeding coefficients found in these eusocial thrips have increased relatedness among and within both sexes and have reduced the haplodiploidy-induced relatedness asymmetries [Hamilton, W. D. (1964) J. Theor. Biol. 7, 1-52]. These results indicate that unusually high relatedness is associated with the origin of eusociality, and they suggest a role for inbreeding in the evolution of bisexual helping.
De novo genome assembly of populus simonii further supports that populus simonii and populus trichocarpa belong to different sections. Populus simonii is an important tree in the genus Populus, widely distributed in the Northern Hemisphere and having a long cultivation history. Although this species has ecologically and economically important values, its genome sequence is currently not available, hindering the development of new varieties with wider adaptive and commercial traits. Here, we report a chromosome-level genome assembly of P. simonii using PacBio long-read sequencing data aided by Illumina paired-end reads and related genetic linkage maps. The assembly is 441.38 Mb in length and contain 686 contigs with a contig N50 of 1.94 Mb. With the linkage maps, 336 contigs were successfully anchored into 19 pseudochromosomes, accounting for 90.2% of the assembled genome size. Genomic integrity assessment showed that 1,347 (97.9%) of the 1,375 genes conserved among all embryophytes can be found in the P. simonii assembly. Genomic repeat analysis revealed that 41.47% of the P. simonii genome is composed of repetitive elements, of which 40.17% contained interspersed repeats. A total of 45,459 genes were predicted from the P. simonii genome sequence and 39,833 (87.6%) of the genes were annotated with one or more related functions. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that P. simonii and Populus trichocarpa should be placed in different sections, contrary to the previous classification according to morphology. The genome assembly not only provides an important genetic resource for the comparative and functional genomics of different Populus species, but also furnishes one of the closest reference sequences for identifying genomic variants in an F1 hybrid population derived by crossing P. simonii with other Populus species.
Psychology and the politics of child protection after 1956 in Hungary. Hungary in the early 1950s, led by Stalin's "best pupil" Mtyeis Rakosi, was a faithful follower of the Soviet line. This was manifested in the fields of culture and science. Thus, most of the psychological research was labelled ideologically dangerous bourgeois pseudo-science. After the death of Stalin, followed by Khrushchev's anti-Stalinist critique and the policies of "peaceful coexistence", a science-political opening was experienced in the Eastern Bloc. In addition to sociology, cybernetics and Mendelian genetics, psychology was rehabilitated and introduced into the centrally directed communist academic system. In Hungary, the bad memory of Rákosi's dictatorship was added with the experience of the 1956 revolution and its violent suppression. After 1956, one-party dictatorship was forced to change the methods of governing. Social and economic policies were adopted to legitimize the system and to build a kind of a paternalist welfare state. In this task, psychological expertise was needed. The article investigates the discourse of child- and educational psychologists in the late 1950s and early 1960s. Child protection was a high political priority for the Hungarian Socialist Workers' Party. It was one of the fields in which psychological expertise was articulated and used as a tool to adapt people to Socialist society.
Differences in above- and below-ground responses to ozone between two populations of a perennial grass. Our study examined the influence of elevated ozone levels on the growth and mycorrhizal colonization of two populations of Elymus glaucus L. (blue wildrye). We hypothesized that ozone would reduce carbon availability to the plants, particularly below ground, and would affect mycorrhizal colonization. Because of the wide geographic range of E. glaucus, two populations of plants were selected from areas of contrasting ozone histories to examine intraspecies variation in response to ozone. Two populations of E. glaucus (southern California versus northern California) exposed in a factorial experiment involving ozone, mycorrhizal inoculation with Glomus intraradices Schenck and Smith, and plant source population. Ozone had a subtle effect on leaf area and number of tillers but did not affect overall root: shoot ratio in either population. The impact of ozone on above-ground growth characteristics was most pronounced in the southern population that came from a high-ozone environment, while below-ground responses such as reduced arbuscular colonization was most pronounced in the northern population which originated in a low-ozone environment. Further analysis of soil characteristics from the northern population of plants revealed a significant reduction in active soil bacterial biomass and an increase in total fungi per gram dry weight soil, suggesting a possible role for ozone in altering soil processes. Whether or not population differences in response to ozone were due to genetic shifts resulting from prior ozone remains to be determined. However, these subtle but important differences in population response to ozone above- and below-ground have significant implications in any attempt to generalize plant response, even within a species. Future research efforts need to include better characterization of intraspecific variation in response to ozone as well as possible adaptive strategies that may result from chronic ozone exposure.
Genetic population structure of turbot (Scophthalmus maximus L.) supports the presence of multiple hybrid zones for marine fishes in the transition zone between the Baltic Sea and the North Sea. Genetic population structure of turbot (Scophthalmus maximus L.) in the Northeast Atlantic was investigated using eight highly variable microsatellite loci. In total 706 individuals from eight locations with temporal replicates were assayed, covering an area from the French Bay of Biscay to the Aaland archipelago in the Baltic Sea. In contrast to previous genetic studies of turbot, we found significant genetic differentiation among samples with a maximum pairwise FST of 0.032. Limited or no genetic differentiation was found among samples within the Atlantic/North Sea area and within the Baltic Sea, suggesting high gene flow among populations in these areas. In contrast, there was a sharp cline in genetic differentiation going from the low saline Baltic Sea to the high saline North Sea. The data were explained best by two divergent populations connected by a hybrid zone; however, a mechanical mixing model could not be ruled out. A significant part of the genetic variance could be ascribed to variation among years within locality. Nevertheless, the population structure was relatively stable over time, suggesting that the observed pattern of genetic differentiation is biologically significant. This study suggests that hybrid zones are a common phenomenon for marine fishes in the transition area between the North Sea and the Baltic Sea and highlights the importance of using interspecific comparisons for inferring population structure in high gene flow species such as most marine fishes.
Estimation of Locational Marginal Price in a Restructured Electricity Market with Different Loss Cases using Seed Genetic Algorithm. In restructured electricity markets, an effective transmission pricing is required to address transmission issues and to generate correct economic signals. These prices depend on generator bids, load levels and transmission network constraints. A congestion charge is incurred when the system is constrained due to physical limitations. Locational marginal pricing (LMP) is a popular method in restructured power markets to address these issues. Seed genetic algorithms performs powerful global searches and is a well-proven optimization algorithm. This paper combines a seed Genetic Algorithm approach with DC optimal power flow (DCOPF) to estimate LMP at all buses while minimizing the net system generation costs or fuel cost in a constrained pool-based restructured electricity market. Various cases like LMP without loss, concentrated loss and distributed loss have been attempted. Both fixed bids and linear bids are considered for generators. Load is assumed to be inelastic. The developed models have been tested on IEEE 14 bus, New England 39 bus and 75 bus Indian Power systems. Comparison is made between linear programming-based DCOPF using Power World Simulator and the developed GA approach for all cases of fuel cost. In all the cases studied, GA approach is found to estimate better LMP and minimum fuel cost. ISO profits during congestion have also been evaluated in all cases. In this paper the proposed distributed loss model is stated to be the feasible operation compared with concentrated loss model.
Sympatric char of the genus Salvelinus from lakes of the Chukotsk Peninsula. Sympatric forms of freshwater charr from two glacial lakes were studied. A dwarf form of planktivorous charr lives in both lakes. The dwarf charr of both lakes have similar phenotypes and very similar ecologies. Two other charr forms are much larger in size, and to varying degrees are predaceous. Large charr inhabit various waters; they are well differentiated by body shape, color, number of gill rakers, and also by several life-history features. A transformation from dwarf to large charr is assumed to occur in one lake. Interrelations between the charrs in the lakes and their presumed origins are discussed. -Journal summary
Drop-off behaviour of Bt-resistant and Bt-susceptible Helicoverpa armigera (HÜbner) (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) larvae on Bt-cotton and non-Bt cotton plants. The highest natural mortality rate of larval Lepidoptera in field populations occurs in the first instar, but it is highly variable. The pattern and degree of survival is not easily predicted but depends on their ability to establish on host plants. Lepidopteran larval dispersal behaviour, known as 'drop-off', happens when the host is unsuitable for larvae to settle and begin feeding. Understanding drop-off behaviour of Helicoverpa armigera (HÜbner) with and without physiological resistance to Bt toxins on Bt and non-Bt cotton plants is an important component for resistance management strategies for this insect. We examined the drop-off behaviour of H. armigera to determine: (1) whether they move the same way or differently in response to Bt and non-Bt, and (2) could H. armigera larvae detect Bt toxin levels in cotton plants or did they move independently of toxin levels? In this study, we assessed the drop-off behaviour of Bt-resistant and Bt-susceptible H. armigera neonates on artificial diets and cotton plants with and without Bt toxin during the first 12 h after hatching. Bt-resistant and Bt-susceptible H. armigera neonates behaved differently on Bt and non-Bt substrates. The percentages of Bt-resistant larvae that dropped off Bt and non-Bt cotton plants were not significantly different. In contrast, significantly more Bt-susceptible larvae dropped off Bt cotton than non-Bt cotton plants over time. Although Bt-susceptible larvae could not detect Bt toxin, they showed preference on non-Bt toxin substrates and were more likely to drop off substrates with Bt toxin.
Scanning electron microscope studies of miracidia suggest introgressive hybridization between Schistosoma haematobium and S. haematobium x S. mattheei in the Eastern Transvaal. Schistosoma haematobium miracidia were collected from a locality with a high prevalence of human infection with the animal parasite, 5. mattheei, which hybridizes with S. haematobium, and from 2 localities with negligible infection rates. The terebratoria of the miracidia from these localities were compared with each other, with laboratory maintained S. haematobiurn and with four populations of 5. mattheei by means of scanning electron microscopy. It was found that the terebratorial membrane of certain of the S. haematobium miracidia from the locality with a high S. trzattheei prevalence in humans, resembled the more intricate membrane of S. mattheei. This suggests introgressive hybridization between S. haematobium and 5. haematobium x 5. mattheei.
Genetic strata analysis and coal accumulation of coal-bearing member of ceshui formation in lengshuijiang goal mine field. Based on the study of petrology, ecology, geochemistry and coal petrology of coal -bearing memeber of Ceshui formation in Lenshuijiang mine field, the authors use the method of genetic strata analysis and divide the coal -bearing member into three increment sequence which represent process of aggradation-progradation-retrograding of barriar island-lagoon-tidal flat system, and discusse the sedimentary features, depositional environment and developping history of every increment sequence. Finally the authors summarize the model of accumulation of the coal seams in the coal -bearing member of Ceshui formation. 7figs., 1tab, 2refs.
The Challenge of studying parallel behaviors in humans and animal models. The use of animal models is essential in carrying out research into clinical phenomena such as addiction. However, the complexity of the clinical condition inevitably means that even the best animal models are inadequate representations of the condition they seek to mimic. Such mismatches may account for apparent inconsistencies between discoveries in animal models, including the identification of potential novel therapies, and the translation of such discoveries to the clinic. We argue that it is overambitious to attempt to model human disorders such as addiction in animals, and especially in rodents, where ‘‘validity’’ of such models is often limited to superficial similarities, referred to as ‘‘face validity’’ that reflect quite different underlying phenomena and biological processes from the clinical situation. Instead, we suggest a more profitable approach may be to identify (a) well-defined intermediate human behavioral phenotypes that reflect defined, limited aspects of the human clinical disorder, and (b) to develop animal models that are homologous with those discrete human behavioral phenotypes in terms of psychological processes, and underlying neurobiological mechanisms. Examples of current weaknesses and suggestions for more limited approaches that may allow better homology between the test animal and human condition are made.
PVBase: A MALDI-TOF MS Database for Fast Identification and Characterization of Potentially Pathogenic Vibrio Species From Multiple Regions of China. The potentially pathogenic species of the genus Vibrio pose a threat to both humans and animals, creating medical burdens and economic losses to the mariculture industry. Improvements in surveillance and diagnosis are needed to successfully manage vibriosis outbreaks. Matrix assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS) can provide rapid diagnosis and has been widely used in the identification of Vibrio spp. The main weakness of this technology is the limited number of strains and species of Vibrio in the existing commercial database. Here, we develop a new in-house database named PVBase containing 790 main spectra projections (MSP) of ten Vibrio species that come from various regions of China and include abundant clinical and environmental strains. PVBase was validated through a blind test of 65 Vibrio strains. The identification accuracy and scoring of Vibrio strains was greatly improved through the addition of PVBase. Identification accuracy increased from 73.4 to 100%. The number of strains with identification scores above 2.2 increased from 53.1% to 96.9% and 53.1% of strains had an identification score above 2.59. Moreover, perfect discrimination was obtained when using all of the MSPs created for the Vibrio species, even for very closely related species such as V. cholerae, V. albensis, and V. mimicus or V. alginolyticus, V. parahaemolyticus, and V. harveyi. In addition, we used phyloproteomic analysis to study whether there are differences in protein fingerprints of different regions or pathogenic strains. We found that MSP characteristics of Vibrio species were not related to their region or source. With the construction of PVBase, the identification efficiency of potentially pathogenic Vibrio species has been greatly improved, which is an important advance for epidemic prevention and control, and aquaculture disease detection.
Streptomyces xiaopingdaonensis sp. nov., a novel marine actinomycete isolated from the sediment of Xiaopingdao in Dalian, China. A novel streptomycete, designated as strain DUT 180T, was isolated from a marine sediment sample collected from a sea cucumber farm in Dalian, northeast China. Phylogenetic analyses based on 16S rRNA gene sequences showed that strain DUT 180T is phylogenetically affiliated to the genus Streptomyces where it formed a distinct phyletic line with recognized Streptomyces species. Morphological and chemotaxonomic data also supported the affiliation of this isolate to the genus Streptomyces. Strain DUT 180T was found to exhibit highest sequence similarities of 99.52 and 99.36 % to Streptomyces halophytocola KLBMP 1284T and Streptomyces sulphureus NRRL B-1627T, respectively. However, strain DUT 180T could be distinguished from these two closest neighbours by a range of phenotypic properties. The DNA–DNA hybridization analyses between strain DUT 180T and the type strains of the phylogenetic neighbours revealed 54.8 ± 1.4 and 52.4 ± 2.8 % relatedness. Based on the phenotypic, chemotaxonomic and phylogenetic evidence, we suggest that the isolate DUT 180T represents a novel species of the genus Streptomyces, for which the name Streptomyces xiaopingdaonensis sp. nov. is proposed, with the type strain DUT 180T (= KCTC 29679T = CGMCC 4.7208T).
Differential evolution and genetic algorithm methods for parameter estimation of the generalized half normal distribution with hybrid censoring. Hybrid censoring is an efficient scheme for saving test time and cost. However, a hybrid censoring life test often induces a complicated likelihood function and makes the search of maximum likelihood estimates (MLEs) of the model parameters difficult. In this paper, we use the differential evolution (DE) and genetic algorithm (GA) methods to obtain the MLEs of generalized half normal distribution (GHN) parameters, based on hybrid censoring samples, through Monte Carlo simulations. Simulation results show that the DE method outperforms the GA method with smaller bias and mean squared error. The DE method has great potential instead of gradient computation methods to obtain the MLEs of GHN parameters from a hybrid censoring life test.
Sea Urchin Satellite Deoxyribonucleic Acid. Its Large-Scale Isolation and Hybridization with Homologous Ribosomal Ribonucleic Acid. A satellite deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) has been isolated from sperm of the sea urchin Lytechinus variegatus. This satellite DNA has a density of 1.722 g/cc as compared with a density of 1.695 g/cc for main band DNA. The satellite was isolated by selective denaturation of main band DNA followed by separation of the native and denatured DNA in a polyethylene glycol-dextran two-phase system. The satellite was purified 700-fold by this step alone. Preparative CsCl density gradient centrif-ugation further purified the satellite. The yield of satellite DNA was 45 % of the total amount determined present in the purified whole sperm DNA. The sedimentation coefficient was 23.3 S, corresponding to a molecular weight of about 1 × 107 daltons. The satellite was shown to contain sequences which hybridize with homologous ribosomal ribonucleic acid.
Coat color genes and cage temperature effects on care of the body surface (COBS) behavior of Meriones unguiculatus. Male and female Mongolian gerbils (Meriones unguiculatus) carrying three coat color alleles, agouti, sandy, and black, were tested for 15 min under three cage temperature conditions, warm (35-40°C), neutral (20°C), and cold (0-5°C). A frequency count of scratching, face and body wash, belly/side rubs, and shaking was taken of these animals' activities during the test sessions. Sex differences were not evident but coat color and age temperature affected the belly/side rubs and shaking activities. There were also effects of cage temperature but not coat color on face/body wash and scratching. It appears that animals with these coat color variants manifest disparate patterns of COBS behavior when encountering different thermal environments.
Evaluation of the genetic variability of homoeologous group 3 SSRs in bread wheat.. Thorough characterization of the genetic variability in bread wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) is important for a better improvement of this key crop and to increase cereal yield in the context of sustainable agriculture to face human needs in the next decades. To study the genetic variability of SSRs on wheat homoeologous group 3 chromosomes, we characterized 38 hexaploid and two tetraploid wheat lines using a set of 165 microsatellites that we cytogenetically assigned to the 17 deletion bins for chromosomes group 3. A comparative analysis of the genetic variability through the PIC value study, allele numbers and SSR lengths indicated that there were no statistically significant differences (p > 0.05) between the three chromosomes of this homoeologous group despite the fact that SSRs from chromosome 3B exhibited slightly more alleles per locus compared to chromosomes 3A and 3D as well as slightly higher PIC values compared to chromosome 3D. However, there was a stronger correlation between SSR length and allele number on the short arms compared to the long arms and the correlation increased from the centromeres toward the telomeres. We did not find statistically significant differences in allele numbers and PIC values for SSRs located in more distal bins on 3A and 3B chromosomes. On the contrary, for chromosome 3D, we observed significant differences (p < 0.05) between the PIC values determined for SSRs assigned to deletion bin 3DL3-0.81-1.00 bin that is located distal compare to the more proximal region (C-3DL3-0.81). These results suggest that recombination which is higher in the telomeric regions does not contribute to increase a lot the variability of the SSRs.
Spermatozoal DNA flow cytometry and recurrent miscarriage. Clinical investigations of the male partner of couples with recurrent miscarriage involves investigation of abnormalities in paternal chromosomes. This route of investigation does not include analysis of semen parameters. This investigation was conducted to evaluate DNA flow cytometry profiles of spermatozoa following staining with propidium iodide of couples attending the Pregnancy Loss Clinic for recurrent miscarriage. Ejaculates of 21 men were included in this study. DNA fluorescence was measured on the Becton Dickinson Fac Star Plus. Data were correlated with spermiogram parameters. The neat semen median minus peak channel values were negatively correlated with motility (p < .05). Therefore, DNA flow cytometry can provide confirmatory evidence for conventional semen analysis and is useful as a preliminary screening procedure for clinical management of the couple. It could also be used in association with programs for the assessment of possible reproductive toxicity and infertility in couples with recurrent miscarriage.
Maternal grandsire, granddam, and sire breed effects on growth and carcass traits of crossbred cattle. Postweaning growth, feed efficiency, and carcass traits were analyzed on 1,422 animals obtained by mating F1 cows to F1 (Belgian Blue x British breeds) or Charolais sires. Cows were obtained from mating Hereford, Angus, and MARC III (1/4 Hereford, 1/4 Angus, 1/4 Pinzgauer, and 1/4 Red Poll) dams to Hereford or Angus (British breeds), Tuli, Boran, Brahman, or Belgian Blue sires. Breed groups were fed in replicated pens and slaughtered serially in each of 2 yr. Postweaning average daily gain; live weight; hot carcass weight; fat depth; longissimus area; estimated kidney, pelvic, and heart fat (percentage); percentage Choice; marbling score; USDA yield grade; retail product yield (percentage); retail product weight; fat yield (percentage); fat weight; bone yield (percentage); and bone weight were analyzed in this population. Quadratic regressions of pen mean weight on days fed and of cumulative ME consumption on days fed were used to estimate gain, ME consumption and efficiency (Mcal of ME/kg of gain) over time (0 to 200 d on feed), and weight (300 to 550 kg) intervals. Maternal grandsire breed was significant (P < 0.01) for all traits. Maternal granddam breed (Hereford, Angus, or MARC III) was significant (P < 0.05) only for fat depth, USDA yield grade, retail product yield, fat yield, fat weight, and bone yield. Sire breed was significant (P < 0.05) for live weight, hot carcass weight, longissimus area, and bone weight. Sex class was a significant (P < 0.001) source of variation for all traits except for percentage Choice, marbling score, retail product yield, and fat yield. Interactions between maternal grandsire and sire breed were nonexistent. Sire and grandsire breed effects can be optimized by selection and use of appropriate crossbreeding systems.
"I wouldn't classify myself as a patient": The importance of a "well-being" environment for individuals receiving counseling about familial cancer risk. Many individuals receiving genetic counseling are healthy with no need for clinical cancer services. We have recently relocated our cancer genetic clinic to a small house on the outskirts of a hospital site which incorporates many elements proven to be important in creating a "well-being" environment. This study explored participants' perceptions of such an environment. Eleven semi-structured telephone interviews were conducted with women who had attended the new cancer genetic clinic. All were at high risk of familial cancer, five were gene carriers and three had a personal diagnosis of cancer. The new clinic was perceived to be less medical and more relaxing than other clinics, encouraged other family members to attend in support of the attendee and did not appear to impede information comprehension. The importance of not being made to feel like an ill patient was apparent. A desire for a quiet area allowing time for reflection whilst waiting for, and following, counseling was identified. A poorly designed counseling area could reduce the quality of the interaction between patient and counselor. Consideration of specific environmental design features may promote individuals' well-being and make those attending genetic counseling feel less like "patients." Larger studies should seek to explore further the potential associations between factors such as environmental design, psychological well-being and comprehension of risk information.
Plastics in the marine environment are reservoirs for antibiotic and metal resistance genes. Plastics have been accumulated offshore and in the deep oceans at an unprecedented scale. Microbial communities have colonized the plastisphere, which has become a reservoir for both antibiotic and metal resistance genes (ARGs and MRGs). This is the first analysis of the diversity, abundance, and co-occurrence of ARGs and MRGs, and their relationships within the microbial community, using metagenomic data of plastic particles observed in the North Pacific Gyre obtained from the National Centre for Biotechnology Information Sequence Read Archive database. The abundance of ARGs and MRGs in microbial communities on the plastics were in the ranges 7.07 × 10−4–1.21 × 10−2 and 5.51 × 10−3–4.82 × 10−2 copies per 16S rRNA, respectively. Both the Shannon-Wiener indices and richness of ARGs and MRGs in plastics microbiota were significantly greater than those of ARGs and MRGs in seawater microbiota in the North Pacific Gyre via one-way analysis of variance. Multidrug resistance genes and multi-metal resistance genes were the main classes of genes detected in plastic microbiota. There were no significant differences in the abundance or diversity of ARGs and MRGs between macroplastics biota and microplastics biota, indicating that particle size had no effect on resistance genes. Procrustes analysis suggested that microbial community composition was the determining factor of the ARG profile but not for MRG. Some ARGs and MRGs had a higher incidence of non-random co-occurrence, suggesting that the co-effects of selection for antibiotic or metal resistance are important factors influencing the resistome of the microbiota on the plastic particles.
Yellow squash and zucchini cultivar evaluation in Georgia. Ten yellow squash (Cucurbita pepo) and nine zucchini (C. pepo) cultivars were evaluated in southwest Georgia during spring and fall growing seasons in 2014 and 2015. Plants were grown using plastic mulch and drip irrigation following standard production practices for squash in Georgia. Plants were harvested 10 to 13 times during each study season. Fruit were graded into fancy, medium, and culls. Virus pressure was low during the trials. For yellow squash yields, there were significant cultivar by season interactions; however, Solstice, a straightneck yellow squash, and Gentry, a crookneck cultivar, were consistently among the highest yielding yellow types. Despite having no documented virus resistance, ‘Gentry’ performed well during the fall season. However, ‘Precious II’, a yellow straightneck cultivar with the presence of the precocious yellow gene, experienced high cull rates in the fall due to virus effects on the fruit. There was a year by season by cultivar interaction for zucchini yield. Despite this interaction, ‘Respect’ was ranked among the highest yielding cultivars in all four seasons of the trial. Differences were also observed between seasons for yellow and zucchini squash, with fall yields generally being lower than those in the spring. The results of this study suggest significant differences in the adaptability of squash cultivars for spring and fall production in Georgia. In addition, virus resistance, while important, should not be the exclusive factor for determining cultivars for fall-planted squash in Georgia.
Imputation of non-genotyped individuals using genotyped progeny in Nellore, a Bos indicus cattle breed. This study aimed at imputing non(un)-genotyped sires using a stepwise imputation approach that combines identity by descent (IBD) detection methods with other imputation algorithms. We also studied the effect of using actual or imputed genotypes of non-genotyped sires in estimating genomic relationships.Simulations and real data were used for the analysis. Fifty sire families were simulated and 23 sire families were derived from 995 Brazilian Nellore cattle genotyped with Illumina® Bovine HD (777,962 SNPs) SNP Chip. Un-genotyped sires were imputed using genotype information from progeny (5 or 10); progeny and grand offspring; a combination of progeny, mates of genotyped progeny and grand offspring; and the entire genotyped population. Stepwise imputation was done with an IBD detection method that uses simple inheritance rules (MERLIN) as a first step and subsequently with FImpute, MaCH or BEAGLE as the second step to infer genotypes that were not imputed unambiguously by MERLIN. The stepwise imputation procedure was compared to an approach that ignores the first step (MERLIN) but uses only prior pedigree information to impute non-genotyped animals. Imputation accuracy was assessed as percent of correctly called genotypes and the correlation between imputed and actual genotypes (in brackets).With real data, imputation accuracy ranged from 81.6% (0.856) to 97.4% (0.981) depending on the amount of genotyped information considered for the first step (MERLIN) and imputation algorithms used for the second step. Greater accuracies of imputing non-genotyped sires were obtained when the stepwise imputation approach was used with 10 genotyped offspring as the first step. The stepwise approach resulted in an increase of 1.2% (5 offsprings) and 4.7% (10 offsprings) in imputation accuracy. MaCH was more accurate in the second step, followed by FImpute then BEAGLE. Similar trends in imputation accuracy were observed for the simulated population. Generally, imputed genotypes were successfully used to estimate genomic relationships among close relatives but considerable bias was observed for true pairwise relationships of zero.In conclusion, high imputation accuracies can be achieved for non-genotyped animals when genotype information of 5 or 10 direct progeny is available for imputation. Performing preliminary IBD analysis and using non-ambiguous genotypes from that analysis in conventional imputation increased the imputation accuracy considerably.
Evolutionary stability of collateral sensitivity to antibiotics in the model pathogen pseudomonas aeruginosa. Evolution is at the core of the impending antibiotic crisis. Sustainable therapy must thus account for the adaptive potential of pathogens. One option is to exploit evolutionary trade-offs, like collateral sensitivity, where evolved resistance to one antibiotic causes hypersensitivity to another one. To date, the evolutionary stability and thus clinical utility of this trade-off is unclear. We performed a critical experimental test on this key requirement, using evolution experiments with Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and identified three main outcomes: (i) bacteria commonly failed to counter hypersensitivity and went extinct; (ii) hypersensitivity sometimes converted into multidrug resistance; and (iii) resistance gains frequently caused re-sensitization to the previous drug, thereby maintaining the trade-off. Drug order affected the evolutionary outcome, most likely due to variation in the effect size of collateral sensitivity, epistasis among adaptive mutations, and fitness costs. Our finding of robust genetic trade-offs and drug-order effects can guide design of evolution-informed antibiotic therapy.
Balamuthia mandrillaris therapeutic mud bath in Jamaica. Balamuthia mandrillaris is an emerging cause of encephalitis in humans. The transmission dynamics are poorly understood due to the high fatality rate and the sporadic nature of cases. Seventy-two soil samples were collected from beaches and the banks of lagoons, rivers, ponds, mineral springs and streams from across Jamaica and assayed for the presence of B. mandrillaris. Seventy-nine sites were sampled and the mitochondrial 16S rDNA gene of B. mandrillaris was amplified and sequenced to confirm the presence of the amoeba. One isolate of B. mandrillaris was recovered from soil from mineral spring which hosts an informal therapeutic mud bath business. Although B. mandrillaris is less frequently isolated from soil than other free-living amoebae, rubbing mud containing the organism onto the skin increases the likelihood of exposure and infection. This first report on the isolation of B. mandrillaris in the Caribbean and its presence in soil where human contact is likely warrants further investigation using serological methods to elucidate exposure patterns.
The Electoral Consequences of Skin Color: The "Hidden" Side of Race in Politics. Despite the significant role that skin color plays in material well-being and social perceptions, scholars know little if anything about whether skin color and afrocentric features influence political cognition and behavior and specifically, if intraracial variation in addition to categorical difference affects the choices of voters. Do more phenotypically black minorities suffer an electoral penalty as they do in most aspects of life? This study investigates the impact of color and phenotypically black facial features on candidate evaluation, using a nationally representative survey experiment of over 2000 whites. Subjects were randomly assigned to campaign literature of two opposing candidates, in which the race, skin color and features, and issue stance of candidates was varied. I find that afrocentric phenotype is an important, albeit hidden, form of bias in racial attitudes and that the importance of race on candidate evaluation depends largely on skin color and afrocentric features. However, like other racial cues, color and black phenotype don't influence voters' evaluations uniformly but vary in magnitude and direction across the gender and partisan makeup of the electorate in theoretically explicable ways. Ultimately, I argue, scholars of race politics, implicit racial bias, and minority candidates are missing an important aspect of racial bias.
Evolution of oleosin in land plants. Oleosins form a steric barrier surface on lipid droplets in cytoplasm, preventing them from contacting and coalescing with adjacent droplets. Oleosin genes have been detected in numerous plant species. However, the presence of oleosin genes in the most basally diverging lineage of land plants, liverworts, has not been reported previously. Thus we explored whether liverworts have an oleosin gene. In Marchantia polymorpha L., a thalloid liverwort, one predicted sequence was found that could encode oleosin, possessing the hallmark of oleosin, a proline knot (-PX5SPX3P-) motif. The phylogeny of the oleosin gene family in land plants was reconstructed based on both nucleotide and amino acid sequences of oleosins, from 31 representative species covering almost all the main lineages of land plants. Based on our phylogenetic trees, oleosin genes were classified into three groups: M-oleosins (defined here as a novel group distinct from the two previously known groups), low molecular weight isoform (L-oleosin), and high molecular weight isoform (H-oleosin), according to their aminoacid organization, phylogenetic relationships, expression tissues, and immunological characteristics. In liverworts, mosses, lycophytes, and gymnosperms, only M-oleosins have been described. In angiosperms, however, while this isoform remains and is highly expressed in the gametophyte pollen tube, two other isoforms also occur, L-oleosins and H-oleosins. Phylogenetic analyses suggest that the M-oleosin isoform is the precursor to the ancestor of L-oleosins and H-oleosins. The later two isoforms evolved by successive gene duplications in ancestral angiosperms. At the genomic level, most oleosins possess no introns. If introns are present, in both the L-isoform and the M-isoform a single intron inserts behind the central region, while in the H-isoform, a single intron is located at the 5′-terminus. This study fills a major gap in understanding functional gene evolution of oleosin in land plants, shedding new light on evolutionary transitions of lipid storage strategies.
Variation in boldness behaviour across individuals, sexes and strains of the guppy (Poecilia reticulata). The concept of animal personality is based on consistent individual differences in behaviour, yet little is known about the factors responsible for such variation. Theory based on sex-specific selection predicts sexual dimorphism in personality-related traits and, in some cases, differences in trait variances between the sexes. In this study, we examined the sources of individual variation for boldness behaviour in guppies (Poecilia reticulata). We first demonstrated heightened boldness expression in males relative to females across feral wild types, artificially selected domestic 'designer' guppies, and putative hybrids of the two. Boldness and body size covaried at the strain level but were not associated among individuals within strains. We also found high and repeatable behavioural differences among individuals (0.40 > intraclass r > 0.60) in all sex/strain groups except hybrid strain females. However, there was no evidence for the heightened inter-individual male variance anticipated for personality traits subject to certain forms of directional sex-specific selection. Domestic fish were boldest overall, and indicated the largest sex difference, which is consistent with genetic linkage between boldness and male ornamental colouration. Consistently high intrinsic variation in boldness behaviour, which extends to inbred domesticated fish, may in part underpin the invasive potential of this species.
Web resources for HIV type 1 genotypic-resistance test interpretation. Interpreting the results of plasma human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) genotypic drug-resistance tests is one of the most difficult tasks facing clinicians caring for HIV-1-infected patients. There are many drug-resistance mutations, and they arise in complex patterns that cause varying levels of drug resistance. In addition, HIV-1 exists in vivo as a virus population containing many genomic variants. Genotypic-resistance testing detects the drug-resistance mutations present in the most common plasma virus variants but may not detect drug-resistance mutations present in minor virus variants. Therefore, interpretation systems are necessary to determine the phenotypic and clinical significance of drug-resistance mutations found in a patient's plasma virus population. We describe the scientific principles of HIV-1 genotypic-resistance test interpretation and the most commonly used Web-based resources for clinicians ordering genotypic drug-resistance tests.
Inconsistent MHC class II association in Beagles experimentally infected with Leishmania infantum. The clinical outcome of Leishmania infantum infection in dogs varies from subclinical infection to severe disease. Researchers attribute this variability in clinical manifestations to the ability of the immune response to limit pathogen multiplication and dissemination, which is, in part, likely determined by the immune response genes. The aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that MHC class II genes are associated with disease outcome of experimental L. infantum infection in Beagles. Dog leukocyte antigen (DLA) class II haplotypes were characterised by sequence-based typing of Beagle dogs experimentally infected with L. infantum during vaccine challenge studies. Variability of response to infection was determined by clinical score, serology and quantification of L. infantum DNA in the bone marrow over the study period. Dogs showed limited DLA diversity and the DLA profiles of dogs recruited for the different vaccine challenge studies differed. There were variable responses to infection, despite the apparent restriction in genetic diversity. One haplotype DLA-DRB1*001:02–DQA1*001:01–DQB1*002:01 was associated with increased anti-Leishmania antibodies in one infection model, but no DLA associations were found in other groups or with parasite load or clinical score. Examination of this particular DLA haplotype in a larger number of dogs is required to confirm whether an association exists with the immune or clinical responses to L. infantum infection.
Avian haemosporidian diversity on sardinia: A first general assessment for the insular mediterranean. The Western Palearctic is one of the most investigated regions for avian haemosporidian parasites (Haemoproteus, Plasmodium and Leucocytozoon), yet geographic gaps in our regional knowledge remain. Here, we report the first haemosporidian screening of the breeding birds from Sardinia (the second-largest Mediterranean Island and a biodiversity hotspot), and the first for the insular Mediterranean in general. We examined the occurrence of haemosporidians by amplifying their mtDNA cytb gene in 217 breeding birds, belonging to 32 species. The total prevalence of infected birds was 55.3%, and of the 116 haplotypes recovered, 84 were novel. Despite the high number of novel lineages, phylogenetic analysis did not highlight Sardinia-specific clades; instead, some Sardinian lineages were more closely related to lineages previously recovered from continental Europe. Host-parasite network analysis indicated a specialized host-parasite community. Binomial generalized linear models (GLMs), performed at the community level, suggested an elevational effect on haemosporidian occurrence probability (negative for Haemoproteus; positive for Leucocytozoon) likely due to differences in the abundance of insect vectors at different elevations. Furthermore, a GLM revealed that sedentary birds showed a higher probability of being infected by novel haplotypes and long-distance migrants showed a lower probability of novel haplotype infection. We hypothesize that the high diversity of haemosporidians is linked to the isolation of breeding bird populations on Sardinia. This study adds to the growing knowledge on haemosporidians lineage diversity and distribution in insular environments and presents new insights on potential hostparasite associations.
A Case Study of the De Novo Evolution of a Complex Odometric Behavior in Digital Organisms. Investigating the evolution of animal behavior is difficult. The fossil record leaves few clues that would allow us to recapitulate the path that evolution took to build a complex behavior, and the large population sizes and long time scales required prevent us from re-evolving such behaviors in a laboratory setting. We present results of a study in which digital organisms-self-replicating computer programs that are subject to mutations and selection-evolved in different environments that required information about past experience for fitness-enhancing behavioral decisions. One population evolved a mechanism for step-counting, a surprisingly complex odometric behavior that was only indirectly related to enhancing fitness. We examine in detail the operation of the evolved mechanism and the evolutionary transitions that produced this striking example of a complex behavior.
Identification of Hammondia heydorni oocysts by a heminested-PCR (hnPCR-AP10) based on the H. heydorni RAPD fragment AP10. Toxoplasma gondii, Hammondia hammondi, Neospora caninum, Neospora hughesi and Hammondia heydorni are members of the Toxoplasmatinae sub-family. They are closely related coccidians with similarly sized oocysts. Molecular diagnostic techniques, especially those based on polymerase chain reaction (PCR), can be successfully applied for the differentiation of Hammondia-like oocysts. In this paper, we describe a rapid and simple method for the identification of H. heydorni oocysts among other members of the Toxoplasmatinae sub-family, using a heminested-PCR (hnPCR-AP10) based on a H. heydorni RAPD fragment available in molecular database. DNA of oocysts of H. heydorni yielded a specific fragment of 289-290. bp in the heminested-PCR assay. No product was yielded when the primers were used for the amplification of DNA extracted from T. gondii, N. caninum, N. hughesi and H. hammondi, thus allowing the differentiation of H. heydorni among other members of the Toxoplasmatinae sub-family. The hnPCR-AP10 was capable of detecting H. heydorni genetic sequences from suspensions with at least 10 oocysts. In conclusion, the hnPCR-AP10 proved to be a reliable method to be used in the identification of H. heydorni oocysts from feces of dogs.
Foliar treatments with gaultheria procumbens essential oil induce defense responses and resistance against a fungal pathogen in arabidopsis. Essential oil from Gaultheria procumbens is mainly composed of methylsalicylate (MeSA) (>96%), a compound which can be metabolized in plant tissues to salicylic acid, a phytohormone inducing plant immunity against microbial pathogens. The potential use of G. procumbens essential oil as a biocontrol agent was evaluated on the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana. Expression of a selection of defense genes was detected 1, 6, and 24 h after essential oil treatment (0.1 ml/L) using a high-throughput qPCR-based microfluidic technology. Control treatments included methyl jasmonate and a commercialized salicylic acid (SA) analog, benzo(1,2,3)-thiadiazole-7carbothiolic acid (BTH). Strong induction of defense markers known to be regulated by the SA pathway was observed after the treatment with G. procumbens essential oil. Treatment induced the accumulation of total SA in the wild-type Arabidopsis line Col-0 and analysis of the Arabidopsis line sid2, mutated in a SA biosynthetic gene, revealed that approximately 30% of MeSA sprayed on the leaves penetrated inside plant tissues and was demethylated by endogenous esterases. Induction of plant resistance by G. procumbens essential oil was tested following inoculation with a GFP-expressing strain of the Arabidopsis fungal pathogen Colletotrichum higginsianum. Fluorescence measurement of infected tissues revealed that treatments led to a strong reduction (60%) of pathogen development and that the efficacy of the G. procumbens essential oil was similar to the commercial product BION®. Together, these results show that the G. procubens essential oil is a natural source of MeSA which can be formulated to develop new biocontrol products.
Regulation of plant cytosolic aldolase functions by redox-modifications. From the five genes which code for cytosolic fructose 1,6-bisphosphate aldolases in Arabidopsis thaliana L., the cDNA clone of cAld2 (At2g36460), was heterologously expressed in E. coli and incubated under various oxidizing and reducing conditions. Covalent binding of a GSH moiety to the enzyme was shown by incorporation of biotinylated GSH (BioGEE) and by immunodetection with monoclonal anti-GSH serum. Nitrosylation after incubation with GSNO or SNP was demonstrated using the biotin-switch assay. Mass-spectrometry analysis showed glutathionylation and/or nitrosylation at two different cysteine residues: GSH was found to be attached to C68 and C173, while the nitroso-group was incorporated only into C173. Non-reducing SDS-PAGE conducted with purified wild-type and various Cys-mutant proteins revealed the presence of disulfide bridges in the oxidized enzyme, as described for rabbit muscle aldolase. Incubation of the purified enzyme with GSSG (up to 25 mM) led to partial and reversible inactivation of enzyme activity; NADPH, in the presence of the components of the cytosolic NADP-dependent thioredoxin system, could reactivate the aldolase as did DTT. Total and irreversible inactivation occurred with low concentrations (0.1 mM) of nitrosoglutathione (GSNO). Inactivation was prevented by co-incubation of cAld2 with fructose-1,6-bisphosphate (FBP). Nuclear localization of cAld2 and interaction with thioredoxins was shown by transient expression of fusion constructs with fluorescent proteins in isolated protoplasts.
Characterization of PomA mutants defective in the functional assembly of the Na+-driven flagellar motor in Vibrio alginolyticus. The polar flagellar motor of Vibrio alginolyticus rotates using Na+ influx through the stator, which is composed of 2 subunits, PomA and PomB. About a dozen stators dynamically assemble around the rotor, depending on the Na+ concentration in the surrounding environment. The motor torque is generated by the interaction between the cytoplasmic domain of PomA and the C-terminal region of FliG, a component of the rotor. We had shown previously that mutations of FliG affected the stator assembly around the rotor, which suggested that the PomA-FliG interaction is required for the assembly. In this study, we examined the effects of various mutations mainly in the cytoplasmic domain of PomA on that assembly. All mutant stators examined, which resulted in the loss of motor function, assembled at a lower level than did the wild-type PomA. A His tag pulldown assay showed that some mutations in PomA reduced the PomA-PomB interaction, but other mutations did not. Next, we examined the ion conductivity of the mutants using a mutant stator that lacks the plug domain, PomA/PomB δL(δ41-120), which impairs cell growth by overproduction, presumably because a large amount of Na+ is conducted into the cells. Some PomA mutations suppressed this growth inhibition, suggesting that such mutations reduce Na+ conductivity, so that the stators could not assemble around the rotor. Only the mutation H136Y did not impair the stator formation and ion conductivity through the stator. We speculate that this particular mutation may affect the PomA-FliG interaction and prevent activation of the stator assembly around the rotor.
Characterization of a monoclonal antibody and a cDNA for polyubiquitin of Amoeba proteus. A monoclonal antibody was obtained that reacts with many different proteins (14-200 kDa) of Amoeba proteus. By indirect immunofluorescence microscopy we found the antigens to be dispersed throughout the cytoplasm but were more concentrated in the nucleus. The antibody cross-reacted with proteins of Tetrahymena, Xenopus embryo, and mouse macrophages. Using the antibody as a probe we cloned a cDNA of 1.2 kb coding for ubiquitin in five repeats. Amino acid sequences of ameba's polyubiquitin showed the most variations among the nineteen polyubiquitins of other organisms compared. The well-conserved 20Ser and 55Thr residues were replaced with Gly and Ser, respectively. The 28Ala residue found in most organisms was replaced with Gln or Glu in the amoeba. Amoebae contained two ubiquitin-mRNAs that could be detected by Northern blot analysis using the cDNA as a probe. In an analysis for specificity, the antibody reacted with polyubiquitin and ubiquitin-fusion proteins larger than 14 kDa but not with monomeric ubiquitin. The antibody is a useful probe in the detection and characterization of proteins ubiquitinated in response to cellular stresses.
Cloning in Bacillus subtilis by transfection with bacteriophage vector Φ105J27: Isolation and preliminary characterization of transducing phages for 23 sporulation loci. Bacteriophage cloning vector Φ105J27, the construction of which is described in an accompanying paper, has been used for shotgun cloning of sporulation genes in Bacillus subtilis. Various genomic libraries have been constructed and screened for the presence of recombinant phages capable of transducing strains containing sporulation (spo) mutations to Spo+. Of a total of 30 spo loci tested, transducing phages have been isolated for 23, more than half of the known spo loci. Included are nine loci (spo0D, spo0J, spoIIIA, spoIIIE, spoIIIF, spoIVF, spoVB, spoVH and spoVJ) that do not appear to have been cloned previously. Preliminary genetic characterization of some of the new clones by a rapid screening procedure has enabled the status of various sporulation loci to be clarified.
Understanding low chemoprevention uptake by women at high risk of breast cancer: findings from a qualitative inductive study of women’s risk-reduction experiences. Background: Chemoprevention is one of several methods that have been developed to help high-risk women reduce their risk of breast cancer. Reasons for the low uptake of chemoprevention are poorly understood. This paper seeks a deeper understanding of this phenomenon by drawing on women’s own narratives about their awareness of chemoprevention and their risk-related experiences. Methods: This research is based on a parent project that included fifty in-depth, semi-structured interviews with a purposive sample of African American and White women at elevated risk of breast cancer. This specific study draws on the forty-seven interviews conducted with women at high or severe risk of breast cancer, all of whom are eligible to use chemoprevention for breast cancer risk-reduction. Interviews were analyzed using grounded theory methods. Results: Forty-five percent of participants, and only 21% of African American participants, were aware of chemoprevention options. Women who had seen specialists were more likely to be aware, particularly if they had ongoing specialist access. Aware and unaware women relied on different types of sources for prevention-related information. Those whose main source of information was a healthcare provider were more likely to know about chemoprevention. Aware women used more nuanced information gathering strategies and worried more about cancer. Women simultaneously considered all risk-reduction options they knew about. Those who knew about chemoprevention but were reluctant to use it felt this way for multiple reasons, having to do with potential side effects, perceived extreme-ness of the intervention, similarity to chemotherapy, unknown information about chemoprevention, and reluctance to take medications in general. Conclusions: Lack of chemoprevention awareness is a critical gap in women’s ability to make health-protective choices. Future research in this field must consider complexities in both women’s perspectives on chemoprevention and the reasons they are reluctant to use it.
Geneticanalysis of drought stress response in rapeseed (Brassica campestris and B. Napus). II. Yield improvement and the application of selection indices. The expected improvement in grain yield if selection was made for plant characters measured between flowering and maturity was evaluated in populations of rapeseed (Brassica campestris and B. napus) grown in a droughted environment. Drought was commenced at flowering in each species and measurements were made on plants at the commencement of the drought stress, during the stress treatment and at crop maturity. Substantial genetic and phenotypic variation was observed in yield as well as the different morphophysiological determinants of yield. In B. campestris no single parameter was found to be a suitable alternative selection criterion to yield since the correlated responses in yield if selection was for another character was lower than if selection was for yield alone. By the use of a selection index however, joint selection for yield, as well as harvest index, 1000 seed weight and seeds per pod, was expected to be 20% more effective than direct selection for yield under drought. In the B. napus population direct selection for flowering time or for harvest index was predicted to result in a genetic advance in yield equal to or greater than that obtained by direct selection for yield, whereas joint selection for flowering time and yield should result in a 16% greater yield increase. Selection for increased yield in these populations grown in droughted conditions is discussed.
Refusing prenatal diagnosis: The meanings of bioscience in a multicultural world. This article explores the reasons women of diverse class, racial ethnic, national, and religious backgrounds give for their decisions not to accept an amniocentesis or, having accepted one, not to pursue an abortion after diagnosis of serious fetal disability. The narratives of refusers reveal conflicts and tensions between the universalizing rationality of biomedical interventions into pregnancy and the wider heterogeneous social framework to which women respond in their decision-making processes.
Morphology and SSU rRNA gene sequences of three marine ciliates from yellow sea, China, including one new species, Uronema heteromarinum nov. spec. (Ciliophora, Scuticociliatida). The morphology, infraciliature, and silverline system of three marine scuticociliates, Uronema marinum Dujardin, 1841, U. heteromarinum nov. spec. and Pleuronema setigerum Calkins, 1902, isolated from coastal waters off Qingdao, China, were investigated using living observation and silver impregnation methods. Due to the great confusion in the species definition of the well-known species U. marinum, we have documented a detailed discussion/comparison and believe that most of the confusion is due to the fact that at least 2 closely-related sibling morphotypes exist which are often not recognized. Based on the data available, U. marinum is strictly defined as follows: marine Uronema ca. 30 × 10 μm in size, with truncated apical frontal plate and smooth pellicle, extrusomes inconspicuous, cytostome located equatorially, 12-14 somatic kineties and one contractile vacuole pore near posterior end of kinety 2. Uronema heteromarinum nov. spec. resembles U. marinum but can be distinguished morphologically by its notched pellicle with conspicuous extrusomes and reticulate ridges, the 15-16 somatic kineties, widely separated membranelle 1 and membranelle 2, as well as the subequatorially positioned cytostome. Based on the Qingdao population, an improved diagnosis for the poorly known Pleuronema setigerum is: marine slender oval-shaped form, in vivo about 40-50 × 15-20 μm; 3-5 preoral kineties and 14-22 somatic kineties; membranelle 1 and 3 three-rowed, and posterior end of M2a ring-like. The small subunit (SSU) rRNA gene for all three organisms were sequenced and analyzed with standard methods.
Protamines and related proteins from spermatozoa of molluscs. Characterization and molecular weight determination by gel electrophoresis. The spermatozoa of most species of molluscs contain a mixture of proteins with compositions related to those of histones and protamines. The various components present in the spermatozoa of Cryptochiton stellerii, Donax trun culus, Mactra corallina and Gibbula divaricata have been isolated and characterized. The results obtained, taken together with those previously found (Subirana, J.A., Cozcolluela, C., Palau, J. and Unzeta, M. (1973) Biochim. Biophys. Acta 317, 364-379), show that in all the molluscs studied one or more arginine-rich components are present. The molecular weight of these proteins varies very much in different species and is usually much greater than in conventional fish protamines. Conventional histones, as well as lysine-rich proteins of low molecular weight, have also been found in ripe spermatozoa of several species. The molecular weights have been estimated by gel electrophoresis, using polymerized iridine as a standard.
Otolith shape as a valuable tool to evaluate the stock structure of swordfish Xiphias gladius in the Indian Ocean. Swordfish Xiphias gladius is an oceanic-pelagic species. Its population structure in the Western Indian Ocean was studied from the shape of the sagittal otoliths of 391 individuals collected from 2009 to 2014. Normalised elliptical Fourier descriptors (EFDs) were extracted automatically using TNPC software. Principal components analysis (PCA) conducted on EFDs showed no significant effect of side (i.e. left or right otolith). Consequently, all 391 sagittal otoliths were used to identify stocks among six geographical areas: Reunion Island, Mozambique Channel, Rodrigues, South Africa, Madagascar South and Sri Lanka. To investigate the effects of sex, sampling year, sampling season, lower jaw fork length or geographical area on variations in otolith shape, redundancy analyses (RDAs) with permutation tests were conducted. The first four were non-significant (respectively, p = 0.124, p = 0.721, p = 0.197, p = 0.463), but geographical area appeared to discriminate groups significantly (p < 0.05). Furthermore, linear discriminant analysis (LDA) was performed and overall jackknife classification success reached 30%. Finally, a cluster analysis was conducted using Ward’s hierarchical algorithm, which discriminated three different groups. However, each group consisted of individual samples from all geographical areas. In conclusion, our results were unable to identify a clear geographical separation of swordfish at the Indian Ocean scale, corroborating recent genetic studies in this region.
Population Control in Small Animals. Optimal age for ovariohysterectomy or castration has not been defined in the scientific literature. Bitches and queens are significantly less likely to develop mammary neoplasia, which has a high incidence and potentially high morbidity and mortality, if spayed when young. Tom cats exhibit undesirable behaviors that preclude them being good pets and should be castrated young. There is no compelling reason to castrate male dogs when young unless it is needed to control reproductive behaviors or prevent indiscriminate breeding. Alternatives to surgical sterilization that may be available in the future include intratesticular injection and immunization against gonadotropin-releasing hormone.
Isolation of Bacillus anthracis from soil in selected high-risk areas of Zimbabwe. Aims: To isolate Bacillus anthracis from cattle carcass burial sites from high-risk districts in Zimbabwe. Methods and Results: Soil samples were collected from carcass burial sites from seven areas, including two national game parks. Samples were collected from top 5-10 cm, and for spore extraction, 25 g of soil was suspended in sterile distilled water overnight. Supernatants were filtered through 0·45-μm pore cellulose nitrate, deposits suspended in 5 ml phosphate-buffered saline, aliquoted and heated at temperature regimen of 65, 70, 75 and 80°C for 15 min. Samples were plated onto PLET agar. B. anthracis isolates were identified using growth morphology and PCR detecting pXO1 and pXO2 virulence plasmids. From samples heated at 75°C for 15 min, B. anthracis were isolated from 9 of 81 (11·1%) soil samples representing five of the seven sampled areas. Conclusions: We isolated B. anthracis from soil collected from carcass burial sites. PCR targeting virulence plasmids provided a rapid confirmation of B. anthracis. Significance and Impact of the study: The positive isolation indicated that some carcass burial sites may retain viable spores for at least 12 months after the previous outbreak, which suggests that they may be important sources of B. anthracis and new disease outbreaks.
Population dynamics in a Danish metapopulation of spadefoot toads Pelobates fuscus. If an amphibian species has a high degree of site fidelity to its natal pond, subpopulations do not mix, and this may have implications: the subpopulations may get different because of genetic drift, and their status may be affected due to stochastic events. During a four-year period (1994-1997), demographic parameters of a Danish metapopulation consisting of ca 1000 adult Pelobates fuscus in five subpopulations were investigated with the aim of quantifying exchange of individuals in subpopulations and potential differences in demographic parameters, and to clarify population regulating mechanisms. This was done through the use of drift fences surrounding the five breeding ponds, individual marking (PIT-tagging) and weight recordings of the adult females. Metamorphs were recorded when leaving the pond. There was no significant differences between ponds in sex ratio, eggs laid per female, fraction of females breeding and survival of eggs to froglets and of adults. However, there was a significant difference in juvenile survival (52% in one pond and 31% in the others). Sex ratio was 1.70 males:1 female. Mean number of eggs laid per female in the pond was 1762. The number of eggs laid was age-specific, fecundity peaking at age five. Larval survival rate was density dependent: decreasing in an overcompensating fashion at high densities. Exchange rate between ponds was low; 1.09% of the marked and recaptured adult population was found to change pond during the study period. The low exchange rate was confirmed in a simple translocation experiment. This population shows features of a source-sink metapopulation where the identity of the source pond changes due to succession. It is presumably regulated either in the larval stage by density dependent mechanisms (in the subpopulations with many adults) or in the adult stage by density independent mechanisms (in the subpopulations with few adults).
Influence of flag leaf traits on forage yield components and their ash contents in barley landraces (Hordeum vulgare L.) of south Algeria. Background and Objective: Variability, morphological traits and correlations can be advantageous for breeding programs. The aim of this study was to investigate the influence of flag leaf traits on yield components and their ash content at the soft dough stage and to estimate the variability among genotypes. Materials and Methods: The survey was carried out on 11 barley landraces under sub-humid conditions using a randomized design for morphological and agronomic traits and AFNOR method for ash content. One-way ANOVA was used for analysis of variance, Pearson’s coefficients for correlations and principal component analysis for multivariate statistical assessment. Results: Principal component analysis showed that 5 components absorbed 87.43% of variation. The greater variation among the genotypes was explained mostly by traits of flag leaf, spike and total dry matter yield. Principal correlations showed that the flag leaf area was positively correlated with the spike weight per square meter which had positive correlation with flag leaf length, positive and high correlation with the spike dry weight. Spike fresh weight correlated positively with spike ash content. This last was correlated negatively with ash content of stems and leaves, it was also negatively but highly correlated with flag leaf inclination angle. Heading had a high negative correlation with the spike dry matter content. It was negatively correlated with ash content of stems and leaves but positively with spike ash content. Total dry yield was negatively correlated with flag leaf fresh weight but positively highly correlated with the flag leaf dry matter content. Conclusion: A strong diversity was found in the germplasm revealed by very highly significant differences for the majority of the traits studied and particularly for traits of flag leaf, forage yield and spikes. This variability and some links between the flag leaf traits and yield components can help to improve biomass production and ash quality of barley forage.
Phylogeny and evolution of apicoplasts and apicomplexan parasites. The phylum Apicomplexa includes many parasitic genera of medical and veterinary importance including Plasmodium (causative agent of malaria), Toxoplasma (toxoplasmosis), and Babesia (babesiosis). Most of the apicomplexan parasites possess a unique, essential organelle, the apicoplast, which is a plastid without photosynthetic ability. Although the apicoplast is considered to have evolved through secondary endosymbiosis of a red alga into the common ancestral cell of apicomplexans, its evolutionary history has been under debate until recently. The apicoplast has a genome around 30-40. kb in length. Repertoire and arrangement of the apicoplast genome-encoded genes differ among apicomplexan genera, although within the genus Plasmodium these are almost conserved. Genes in the apicoplast genome may be useful markers for Plasmodium phylogeny, because these are single copy (except for the inverted repeat region) and may have more phylogenetic signal than the mitochondrial genome that have been most commonly used for Plasmodium phylogeny. This review describes recent studies concerning the evolutionary origin of the apicoplast, presents evolutionary comparison of the primary structures of apicoplast genomes from apicomplexan parasites, and summarizes recent findings of malaria phylogeny based on apicoplast genome-encoded genes.
Rapid SAR optimization for hyperthermic oncology: combining multi-goal optimization and time-multiplexed steering for hotspot suppression. Purpose: Healthy tissue hotspots are a main limiting factor in administering deep hyperthermia cancer therapy. We propose an optimization scheme that uses time-multiplexed steering (TMPS) among minimally correlated (nearly) Pareto-optimal solutions to suppress hotspots without reducing tumor heating. Furthermore, tumor heating homogeneity is maximized, thus reducing toxicity and avoiding underexposed tumor regions, which in turn may reduce recurrence. Materials and methods: The novel optimization scheme combines random generation of steering parameters with local optimization to efficiently identify the set of (Pareto-) optimal solutions of conflicting optimization goals. To achieve simultaneous suppression of hotspots, multiple steering parameter configurations with minimally correlated hotspots are selected near the Pareto front and combined in TMPS. The performance of the novel scheme was compared with that of a multi-goal Genetic Algorithm for a range of simulated treatment configurations involving a modular applicator heating a generic tumor situated in the bladder, cervix, or pelvic bone. SAR cumulative histograms in tumor and healthy tissue, as well as hotspot volumes are used as metrics. Results: Compared to the non-TMPS optimization, the proposed scheme was able to reduce the peak temperature in healthy tissue by 0.2 °C–1.0 °C (a thermal dose reduction by at least 26%) and, importantly, the hotspot volume above 42 °C in healthy tissue by 41%–86%. At the same time, tumor heating homogeneity was maintained or improved. Conclusions: The extremely rapid optimization (5 s for TMPS part, on a standard PC) permits closed-loop treatment reoptimization during treatment administration, and empowers physicians with a selection of optimal treatment scenarios reflecting different weighting of conflicting treatment goals.
Influence of Physico-Chemical Factors on the Efficiency and Metabolite Profile of Adult Pinus radiata D. Don Bud Organogenesis. Genetic improvement programs for conifer forest species face the challenge of propagating elite individuals with superior characteristics in the present landscape of climate change; the problem is focused on the fact that when these individuals have shown the desirable traits, they have changed phase and therefore have lost the ability to be propagated by traditional methods. Based on our previous works on Pinus spp. regeneration of adult trees through organogenesis and trying to improve the protocol in Pinus radiata, our objective was to analyze the influence of collection dates and different 6-benzyladenine (BA) concentrations in the first phase of shoot induction, as well as the effect of different light types on the success of root induction. Moreover, we were interested in studying the effect of the abovementioned physico-chemical factors on the amino acid and carbohydrate content in the shoots developed in vitro. Reinvigorated shoots were obtained in both BA concentrations (22 or 44 μM), although the highest BA concentration showed the best results in terms of shoot induction (explants forming shoots (46%) and number of shoots per explant (1.95 ± 0.52)) when using initial explants collected in the first week of February. The percentage of explants forming shoots (EFS) was genotype-dependent. Explants from genotype A induced with the highest BA concentration showed the highest EFS (91%). With respect to the light treatment applied, significant differences in root induction (20%) and in the number of roots per explant (4.62 ± 0.65) were observed in shoots cultured under white FL. Finally, significant differences in different phases of the rooting process were detected in the amounts of fructose, glucose and sucrose and in the content of threonine and tyrosine.
Box–Behnken design optimisation of a green novel nanobio-based reagent for rapid visualisation of latent fingerprints on wet, non-porous substrates. Objective: Optimisation of the green novel nanobio-based reagent (NBR) for rapid visualisation of groomed fingerprints on wet non-porous substrates using response surface methodology and assessment of its stability and sensitivity were attempted for forensic applications. Results: Scanning electron microscopy images demonstrated successful attachments of NBR onto the constituents of fingerprints on the substrates. The highest average quality of visualised fingerprints was attained at the optimum condition (100 mg of CRL; 75 mg of acid-functionalised multi-walled carbon nanotubes; 5 h of immobilisation). The NBR produced comparable average quality of fingerprints with the commercially available small particle reagent, even after 4 weeks of storage (without any preservatives) in both chilled and sultry conditions. The NBR was sensitive enough to visualise the increasingly weaker fingerprints, particularly on glass slides. Conclusion: The optimised novel NBR could be the relatively greener option for visualising latent fingerprints on wet, non-porous substrates for forensic applications.
Soybean breeding materials useful for resistance to soybean rust in Brazil. The development of resistant soybean varieties is an efficient way to manage soybean rust in Brazil. To date, resistant varieties effective in Brazil have been limited due to the presence of highly virulent rust populations. This study aimed to identify effective resistant varieties/resistance genes in selected soybean genotypes against a highly virulent Brazilian rust population, BRP-2. Sixtysix soybean genotypes, including 57 soybean rust-resistant/tolerant genotypes previously identified, were exposed to BRP-2 and their resistance was evaluated based on lesion characteristics. PI 587905 produced typical resistant and susceptible lesions and was excluded from the resistance classification. Hence, 47 (72.3%) of the 65 genotypes tested were classified as susceptible, 14 (21.5%) were classified as slightly resistant and 4 (6.2%) were classified as clearly resistant. Although 18 genotypes were placed into resistant categories, PI594767A was the only genotype on which neither uredinia nor urediniospores were produced in two weeks after inoculation. In addition, urediniospores were observed in all 16 varieties carrying one of the five known resistance genes (Rpp1-Rpp5) and in one genotype in which two resistance genes, Rpp2 and Rpp4, were pyramided. Conversely, our screening of soybean genotypes by the rust population, BRP-2 inoculation revealed that two Chinese varieties, 'Lu Pi Dou' and 'Hei Dou', possessed a leaf-yellowing prevention characteristic. Leaf-yellowing, which might cause rapid defoliation leading to yield loss, was observed not only in susceptible varieties but also in a resistant variety 'Shiranui'. The use of the resistance and/or tolerance identified in this study will assist in the development of resistant cultivars capable of enduring soybean rust in Brazil.
Loess studies in central United States: Evolution of concepts. Few words in the realm of earth science have caused more debate than "loess". It is a common term that was first used as a name of a silt deposit before it was defined in a scientific sense. Because this "loose" deposit is easily distinguished from other more coherent deposits, it was recognized as a matter of practical concern and later became the object of much scientific scrutiny. Loess was first recognized along the Rhine Valley in Germany in the 1830s and was first noted in the United States in 1846 along the lower Mississippi River where it later became the center of attention. The use of the name eventually spread around the world, but its use has not been consistently applied. Over the years some interpretations and stratigraphic correlations have been validated, but others have been hotly contested on conceptual grounds and semantic issues. The concept of loess evolved into a complex issue as loess and loess-like deposits were discovered in different parts of the US. The evolution of concepts in the central US developed in four indefinite stages: the eras of (1) discovery and development of hypotheses, (2) conditional acceptance of the eolian origin of loess, (3) "bandwagon" popularity of loess research, and (4) analytical inquiry on the nature of loess. Toward the end of the first era around 1900, the popular opinion on the meaning of the term loess shifted from a lithological sense of loose silt to a lithogenetic sense of eolian silt. However, the dual use of the term fostered a lingering skepticism during the second era that ended in 1944 with an explosion of interest that lasted for more than a decade. In 1944, R.J. Russell proposed and H.N. Fisk defended a new non-eolian, property-based, concept of loess. The eolian advocates reacted with surprise and enthusiasm. Each side used constrained arguments to show their view of the problem, but did not examine the fundamental problem, which was not in the proofs of their hypothesis, but in the definition of the term. Between 1944 and about 1950, the debates about loess reached a maximum level of complexity. The main semantic problem was submersed in peripheral arguments about physical properties and genetic interpretations. The scholarly treatment of the subject by Fisk and Russell stimulated quality responses from a diversity of earth scientists interested in academic and applied studies, particularly geo-history, pedology, soil mechanics and stratigraphy. The long-lasting popularity of loess studies during the bandwagon era lasted to about 1970. By that time, the analytical and technical interests had attracted the mainstream into the fourth era with a focus beyond the old arguments. Although Fisk and Russell found themselves defending an unpopular theory, they stimulated a scientific interest in the late Quaternary history of the Mississippi Valley that may never be exceeded.
Purification and characterization of anti-complementary polysaccharide from leaves of Thymus vulgaris L. For the purification of the anti-complementary polysaccharide from Thymus vulgaris L., the hot-water extract of thyme leaves was successively fractionated by ethanol precipitation and ultra-filtration. The retentate with 300-kDa membrane cartridge showed a potent anti-complementary activity. It was further purified by open column chromatographies on DEAE-Toyopearl 650C, Butyl-Toyopearl 650M and Sephadex G-100, obtaining TV3-IIA-I, the purified anti-complementary polysaccharide. The anti-complementary polysaccharide exhibited the anti-complementary activity via both classical and alternative pathways. Based upon the methylation analysis and the reaction with β-glucosyl Yariv reagent, the anti-complementary polysaccharide from thyme might contain an arabinogalactan moiety, at least in part.
Genetic ability and intergenerational earnings mobility. This paper examines the role of genetic ability in generating the strong positive intergenerational earnings correlation observed in the USA. We compare the intergenerational wage and earnings elasticities of adopted children with these of non-adopted children. Because adopted children's genetic ability does not depend on that of their adoptive parents, the differences between these two samples reveal the importance of genetic ability in transmitting earnings ability across generations. We find that the earnings correlation between fathers and children would be halved if their biological link was removed. Our results suggest that inheritable ability plays a very important role in passing parents' earnings ability on to their children.
Processing parameters optimization of rapid heat cycle molding based on Kriging meta-model and genetic algorithm. In order to improve the comprehensive quality of high-gloss plastic part, an integrated optimization strategy based on Kriging meta-model and genetic algorithm (GA) was proposed. The optimization strategy was used to optimize the processing parameters of an air-conditioning panel plastics with rapid heat cycle molding (RHCM). Coupled with CAE analysis, the Taguchi method was used to arrange the experimental points. Through the normalization method, linear weighted method and intuitive analysis, it was found that packing pressure, cooling time, melt temperature and heating time were the significant process parameters which affected comprehensive quality of plastic part with RHCM. Then Kriging meta-model was introduced to establish a predictive model between comprehensive quality and the significant process parameters. Besides, GA was used to seek the best result of the predictive model in the feasible solution space. The optimal process parameters were heating time of 36.9 s, melt temperature of 182.9℃, packing pressure of 88.5 MPa, cooling time of 51.3 s. Finally, computer-aided engineering (CAE) analysis and actual production achieved good result, showing that the integrated optimization strategy was feasible and reasonable in processing quality optimization of high-gloss plastic part.
Quantification of pollen mediated gene flow in maize. One approach to ensuring coexistence of genetically modified (GM) and conventional maize (Zea mays L.) is the understanding of pollen dispersal in order to keep GM-inputs below the regulated tolerance threshold of 0.9%. In defining science-based isolation distances between GM and non-GM maize fields, cross-fertilization rates have been studied both in experimental and commercial fields. Gene flow was followed based on Bt maize sequence information. Our results pointed out that cross-fertilization levels rapidly decrease with increasing distance from the pollen source and a 25 m isolation distance would be sufficient to keep GM-inputs from cross-fertilizations below the tolerance threshold of 0.9% in the harvest of neighboring non-GM maize fields.
Seed and seedling traits affecting critical life stage transitions and recruitment outcomes in dryland grasses. Seeding native plants is a key management practice to counter land degradation across the globe, yet the majority of seeding efforts fail, limiting our ability to accelerate ecosystem recovery. Recruitment requires transitions through several seed and seedling stages, some of which may have overriding influences on restoration outcomes. We lack, however, a general framework to understand and predict differences in these critical demographic processes across species. Functional traits influence fitness, and consequently, trait variation could provide the basis for a framework to explain and predict variation in life stage transition probabilities. We used seed and seedling traits, and field probabilities of germination, emergence, seedling establishment, and survival for 47 varieties of drylands grasses under two watering treatments to identify critical life stage transitions and quantify the effect of traits on cumulative survival through the first growing season. Variation in germination and emergence probabilities explained over 90% of the variation in cumulative survival regardless of seedling survival probabilities or watering treatment, with emergence probability being the strongest predictor of cumulative survival. Coleoptile tissue density and seed mass had significant effects on emergence and germination, respectively, explaining 10-23% of the variation in transition probabilities. Synthesis and applications. While the majority of functional trait work has centred on linking leaf and root traits to resource acquisition and utilization, our study demonstrates that traits associated with germination and emergence may have prevailing influences on restoration outcomes. A portion of these traits have been examined, but there is substantial opportunity to identify other key traits driving these demographic processes. These advancements will underpin our ability to develop trait-based frameworks for overcoming recruitment barriers and facilitating recovery of degraded systems across the globe. While the majority of functional trait work has centred on linking leaf and root traits to resource acquisition and utilization, our study demonstrates that traits associated with germination and emergence may have prevailing influences on restoration outcomes. A portion of these traits have been examined, but there is substantial opportunity to identify other key traits driving these demographic processes. These advancements will underpin our ability to develop trait-based frameworks for overcoming recruitment barriers and facilitating recovery of degraded systems across the globe.
Production of Yersinia stable toxin (YST) and distribution of yst genes in biotype 1A strains of Yersinia enterocolitica. Two hundred and fifty nine isolates of Yersinia enterocolitica and related species were examined for the production of heat-stable enterotoxin (Yersinia stable toxin; YST) as well as for the prevalence of enterotoxin genes, viz. ystA, ystB and ystC. Under the conventional conditions used for the production of Y. enterocolitica enterotoxin, i.e. in tryptic soy broth (TSB) supplemented with yeast extract at 28 °C for 48 h, 77.7% of clinical isolates and 62.3% of swine isolates showed enterotoxigenicity in infant mice. All isolates that produced enterotoxin at 28 °C also showed enterotoxic activity at 37 °C after 48 h incubation under an alkaline pH of 7-5, the pH present in the ileum. All Yersinia intermedia and Yersinia frederiksenii isolates were negative for enterotoxin production. All clinical isolates and 96.3% of Y. enterocolitica isolates from swine hybridized with a probe for ystB, which indicated that the ystB gene was most prevalent in Y. enterocolitica biotype 1A strains. None of the Y. enterocolitica isolates showed hybridization with oligonucleotide probes for ystA or ystC. The study indicated that YST-b was the major contributor to diarrhoea produced by biotype 1A strains of Y. enterocolitica.
Protein screening on the Gatersleben collection of cereals and pulses - 1. Protein and lysine content of wheats and their interspecific and intergeneric hybrids. In 1970-1973 the concentrations of protein and lysine, respectively, have been determined in the kernels of 9,706 wheats of the three ploidy levels - among them 1,044 durum and 8,007 common wheats - and of 153 interspecific and intergeneric wheat hybrids (table 1). The two biochemical characters exhibit a considerable variability; probably most of this variability is of non-genetic origin (table 2). On the basis of the first screening-round 1,582 wheats and 78 hybrids, respectively, with high protein and/or lysine contents have been selected for recultivation in 1974 with the aim to confirm the first screening results. On the basis of the second round of analyses 150 'plus variations' were selected, representing varieties with a combination of high protein and high absolute lysine contents, with high protein concentrations, high absolute and high relative lysine contents, respectively, or combinations of a more moderate protein content with a relatively high level of lysine in the protein (lysine adjusted to 13% protein). These 'plus variations' (tables 13-17) have to be investigated more profoundly before some of them may be confirmed as potential genetic sources of high protein and high lysine characters for breeding purposes. Correlations between the different characters, including thousand kernel weights, have been calculated (table 7).
The microbiome of a bacterivorous marine choanoflagellate contains a resource-demanding obligate bacterial associate. Microbial predators such as choanoflagellates are key players in ocean food webs. Choanoflagellates, which are the closest unicellular relatives of animals, consume bacteria and also exhibit marked biological transitions triggered by bacterial compounds, yet their native microbiomes remain uncharacterized. Here we report the discovery of a ubiquitous, uncultured bacterial lineage we name Candidatus Comchoanobacterales ord. nov., related to the human pathogen Coxiella and physically associated with the uncultured marine choanoflagellate Bicosta minor. We analyse complete ‘Comchoano’ genomes acquired after sorting single Bicosta cells, finding signatures of obligate host-dependence, including reduction of pathways encoding glycolysis, membrane components, amino acids and B-vitamins. Comchoano encode the necessary apparatus to import energy and other compounds from the host, proteins for host-cell associations and a type IV secretion system closest to Coxiella’s that is expressed in Pacific Ocean metatranscriptomes. Interactions between choanoflagellates and their microbiota could reshape the direction of energy and resource flow attributed to microbial predators, adding complexity and nuance to marine food webs.
DUS characterization of winged bean (Psophocarpus tetragonolobus L.) germplasm through qualitative and quantitative traits. Winged bean (Psophocarpus tetragonolobus L.) is a traditionally and economically vegetable crop with good nutritional and medicinal value. Characterization was carried out by studying nine qualitative and six quantitative traits. Categorical differences among 27 germplasm lines including two checks viz. C.G. Chaudhari Sem-2 and U.P. local were observed in traits such as stem colour, leaflet shape, leaflet size, corolla colour, pod colour, pod shape, pod surface texture, seed colour, seed shape, tuber size, days to pod initiation, number of pods/plant, pod length, 100 seed weight and seed yield/ plant. Several of these traits may be useful as genetic markers and in hybridization programme. Identified lines will be helpful for targeting productivity enhancement and attractiveness in winged bean.
Genetic diversity of promising ‘conilon’ coffee clones based on morpho-agronomic variables. Knowledge of the genetic variability of a population is essential to guide its preservation and maintenance in addition to increasing the efficiency of genetic breeding programs. On this basis, this study was conducted to evaluate the genetic diversity of Coffea canephora genotypes using multivariate statistical procedures applied to a set of morpho-agronomic variables. The materials employed in this study constitute a crop located in Vila Valério-ES, Brazil, where the genotypes are arranged in a randomized-blocks experimental design with four replicates. Significant differences were detected by the F test at the 1% or 5% probability levels among the genotypes for all evaluated traits, demonstrating heterogeneity of genetic constitution in the studied population, which is favorable to breeding, as it indicates the possibility to identify superior and divergent individuals. Based on the generalized Mahalanobis distance, the most divergent combinations were obtained between genotypes 23 and 10 (256.43) and 23 and 17 (250.09). The clusters formed by Tocher’s optimization and the UPGMA hierarchical method agreed, both similarly grouping the genotypes into three clusters. Of the analyzed traits, mature fruit weight (19.08%), yield (15.50%), plant diameter (12.42%), and orthotropic-shoot internode length (10.94%) were the most efficient to explain the dissimilarity among the genotypes.
Microsatellite markers linked to six Russian wheat aphid resistance genes in wheat. The Russian wheat aphid (RWA), Diuraphis noxia Mordvilko, is a serious economic pest of wheat and barley in North America, South America, and South Africa. Using aphid-resistant cultivars has proven to be a viable tactic for RWA management. Several dominant resistance genes have been identified in wheat, Triticum aestivum, including Dn1 in PI 137739, Dn2 in PI 262660, and at least three resistance genes (Dn5+) in PI 294994. The identification of RWA-resistant genes and the development of resistant cultivars may be accelerated through the use of molecular markers. DNA of wheat from near-isogenic lines and segregating F2 populations was amplified with microsatellite primers via PCR. Results revealed that the locus for wheat microsatellite GWM111 (Xgwm111), located on wheat chromosome 7DS (short arm), is tightly linked to Dn1, Dn2 and Dn5, as well as Dnx in PI 220127. Segregation data indicate RWA resistance in wheat PI 220127 is also conferred by a single dominant resistance gene (Dnx). These results confirm that Dn1, Dn2 and Dn5 are tightly linked to each other, and provide new information about their location, being 7DS, near the centromere, instead of as previously reported on 7DL. Xgwm635 (near the distal end of 7DS) clearly marked the location of the previously suggested resistance gene in PI 294994, here designated as Dn8. Xgwm642 (located on 1DL) marked and identified another new gene Dn9, which is located in a defense generich region of wheat chromosome 1DL. The locations of markers and the linked genes were confirmed by di-telosomic and nulli-tetrasomic analyses. Genetic linkage maps of the above RWA resistance genes and markers have been constructed for wheat chromosomes 1D and 7D. These markers will be useful in marker-assisted breeding for RWA-resistant wheat.
Relative economic weights of maternal versus direct traits in breeding schemes. In genetic improvement schemes, the economic values of traits in the breeding objectives depend on time and frequency of realisation in offspring generations. A measure for this is the number of discounted expressions (NDE) derived by the gene flow procedure. These were calculated for two groups of traits or trait components: "Maternal traits" realised repeatedly during the life of the dam and "direct traits" realised once in early life of an animal. Selection was considered for purebred populations with a multi-purpose objective and for populations incorporated as specialised sire or dam breeds in a three-way crossbreeding scheme. The reproductive conditions of pigs, sheep, beef and dairy cattle were taken as example. For most realistic conditions in a purebred population, the marginal economic value for a maternal trait should be weighted with a factor between 0.55 and 0.60 of that for a direct trait. Much more relative weight should be given to maternal traits in dam breeds of a crossbreeding scheme, particularly in prolific species. Economic weights of maternal traits in a sire breed are generally negligible, but not when assuming a short investment period and inefficient use of terminal sires in the commercial level. If no reciprocal crosses of both types of F1 dams are used, maternal traits are relatively more important in the breed used as maternal granddam of the terminal product than in that used in the grandsire position. These differences are higher for less prolific species.
Global plant stress signaling: Reactive oxygen species at the cross-road. Current technologies have changed biology into a data-intensive field and significantly increased our understanding of signal transduction pathways in plants. However, global defense signaling networks in plants have not been established yet. Considering the apparent intricate nature of signaling mechanisms in plants (due to their sessile nature), studying the points at which different signaling pathways converge, rather than the branches, represents a good start to unravel global plant signaling networks. In this regard, growing evidence shows that the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) is one of the most common plant responses to different stresses, representing a point at which various signaling pathways come together. In this review, the complex nature of plant stress signaling networks will be discussed. An emphasis on different signaling players with a specific attention to ROS as the primary source of the signaling battery in plants will be presented. The interactions between ROS and other signaling components, e.g., calcium, redox homeostasis, membranes, G-proteins, MAPKs, plant hormones, and transcription factors will be assessed. A better understanding of the vital roles ROS are playing in plant signaling would help innovate new strategies to improve plant productivity under the circumstances of the increasing severity of environmental conditions and the high demand of food and energy worldwide.
Juror perceptions of the stereotypical violent crime defendant. Stereotypes and prejudice have been shown to bias information processing and decision-making. There are physical traits that are stereotypically associated with criminals (i.e. tattoos, dark skin-tone, facial untrustworthiness) and have been shown to influence juror decision-making. The current research aimed to investigate the effects of tattoos, facial trustworthiness and skin tone on juror case judgments and criminal appearance ratings, while also investigating and accounting for prejudice and motivation to respond without prejudice. Participants (n = 426) were asked to act as mock jurors in a hypothetical assault case by making case judgments and responding to appearance and attitude measures. Criminal appearance ratings indirectly mediated the relationship between physical traits and verdict decisions. Additionally, a significant interaction emerged between skin tone and racial prejudice on criminal appearance ratings, suggesting that the effects of physical traits may depend on individual attitudes. Implications and future directions are discussed.
Molecular and cytogenetic identification of new wheat-Dasypyrum breviaristatum additions conferring resistance to stem rust and powdery mildew. Two cytologically stable wheat-Dasypyrum breviarisatatum addition lines, Y93-1-6-6 and Y93-1-A6-4, were identified by integrated molecular and cytogenetic techniques. C-banding and genomic in situ hybridization (GISH) showed that Y93-1-6-6 and Y93-1-A6-4 were different wheat-D. breviaristatum additions. A total of 51 markers (primer/enzyme combinations), including 6 PCR-based Landmark Unique Gene (PLUG) markers and 45 Sequence-Tagged-Site (STS) markers, were selected from 3,774 primer/enzyme combinations to further characterize these two additions. Marker haploytpes suggested that both D. breviaristatum chromosomes in Y93-1-6-6 and Y93-1-A6-4 were rearranged. Stem rust resistance screening indicated that both additions were highly resistant to race RKQQC, whereas only Y93-1-6-6 was resistant to race TTKSK (Ug99). Powdery mildew resistance screening showed that only Y93-1-6-6 was resistant. Pedigree analysis suggested that the stem rust and powdery mildew resistance of Y93-1-6-6 was derived from D. breviaristatum, indicating that the D. breviaristatum chromosomes in Y93-1-6-6 possess a new powdery mildew resistance gene(s), and new stem rust resistance gene(s). These two additions could be used as stem rust or powdery mildew resistance sources in wheat breeding programs.
The Prediction of Beijing Urban Growth Boundary. Urban growth boundary (UGB) is an effective tool to control urban sprawl. China has carried out the UGB delineation for 14 cities since 2014. UGB includes rigid boundary and elastic boundary. The rigid boundary is an external constraint line and the elastic boundary is the developing line of the interior. In this study, from the angle of the urban endogenous development motivation, we selected 6 types of influence factors such as nature, population economy, location, neighborhood, land use type and policy planning, totally 18 factors. We tried to use genetic algorithms, CA and BP neural network to establish the UGB model to define Beijing elastic boundary. From the angle of ecological carrying capacity of land, we selected terrain, topography, parks and water, land use status, urban land distance and nature reserves as the influence factors and we tried to use construction land suitability evaluation method to define Beijing rigid boundary. The results show that by using our urban growth boundary model to predict Beijing elastic urban growth boundary, the percent area match was 96%, kappa value is 0.812, the UGB Model accuracy is good and the prediction area of Beijing elastic UGB is 1738.98 square kilometers. Through the suitability evaluation, the rigid boundary area is 3297.01 square kilometers.
Future strategies for broiler breeders: An international perspective. A series of factors have contributed to the progressive diversification of reproduction strategies to produce day-old chicks in distinct geographical locations. Some of these strategies are adaptable by simple technology transfer and education (e.g. darkout housing to control photoperiod, appropriate feeding and management of breeder flocks) while others require continued efforts from geneticists and physiologists to develop new genetic lines and tools (e.g. selection of breeds adapted for hot climates and gene banking). Reproduction strategies in broiler breeders will also probably continue to diversify depending on economic and social components, including labour and feed costs as well as local regulations. As a consequence, the final choice between natural mating or artificial insemination (for caged or floored breeders) is itself multifactorial and may lead to the selection of parent stock lines optimised for one or the other strategy, according to country and living standards. Finally, the diversity in consumer demand for poultry will itself favour the emergence of specialised birds and management techniques directly adapted to local needs.
Jasmonic acid and methyl jasmonate modulate growth, photosynthetic activity and expression of photosystem II subunit genes in Brassica oleracea L. The effects of jasmonic acid (JA) and methyl jasmonate (Me-JA) on photosynthetic efficiency and expression of some photosystem (PSII) related in different cultivars of Brassica oleracea L. (var. italica, capitata, and botrytis) were investigated. Plants raised from seeds subjected to a pre-sowing soaking treatment of varying concentrations of JA and Me-JA showed enhanced photosynthetic efficiency in terms of qP and chlorophyll fluorescence. Maximum quantum efficiency of PSII (Fv/Fm) was increased over that in the control seedlings. This enhancement was more pronounced in the Me-JA-treated seedlings compared to that in JA-treated ones. The expression of PSII genes was differentially regulated among the three varieties of B. oleracea. The gene PsbI up-upregulated in var. botrytis after treatment of JA and Me-JA, whereas PsbL up-regulated in capitata and botrytis after supplementation of JA. The gene PsbM showed many fold enhancements in these expressions in italica and botrytis after treatment with JA. However, the expression of the gene PsbM increased by both JA and Me-JA treatments. PsbTc(p) and PsbTc(n) were also found to be differentially expressed which revealed specificity with the variety chosen as well as JA or Me-JA treatments. The RuBP carboxylase activity remained unaffected by either JA or Me-JA supplementation in all three varieties of B. oleracea L. The data suggest that exogenous application of JA and Me-JA to seeds before germination could influence the assembly, stability, and repair of PS II in the three varieties of B. oleracea examined. Furthermore, this improvement in the PS II machinery enhanced the photosynthetic efficiency of the system and improved the photosynthetic productivity in terms of saccharides accumulation.
Economic Injury Levels for Bt-resistant Helicoverpa zea (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) in Cotton. Thresholds for Helicoverpa zea (Boddie) in cotton Gossypium hirsutum L. have been understudied since the widespread adoption of Bt cotton in the United States. Our study was possible due to the widespread presence of H. zea populations with Cry-toxin resistance. We initiated progressive spray timing experiments using three Bt cotton brands (Deltapine, Stoneville, and Phytogen) widely planted across the U.S. Cotton Belt expressing pyramided toxins in the Cry1A, Cry2, and Vip3Aa19 families. We timed foliar insecticide treatments based on week of bloom to manipulate H. zea populations in tandem with crop development during 2017 and 2018. We hypothesized that non-Bt cotton, cotton expressing Cry toxins alone, and cotton expressing Cry and Vip3Aa19 toxins would respond differently to H. zea feeding. We calculated economic injury levels to support the development of economic thresholds from significant responses. Pressure from H. zea was high during both years. Squares and bolls damaged by H. zea had the strongest negative yield associations, followed by larval number on squares. There were fewer yield associations with larval number on bolls and with number of H. zea eggs on the plant. Larval population levels were very low on varieties expressing Vip3Aa19. Yield response varied across experiments and varieties, suggesting that it is difficult to pinpoint precise economic injury levels. Nonetheless, our results generally suggest that current economic thresholds for H. zea in cotton are too high. Economic injury levels from comparisons between non-Bt varieties and those expressing only Cry toxins could inform future thresholds once H. zea evolves resistance to Vip3Aa19.
The effects of environmental and lifestyle factors on blood pressure and the intermediary role of the sympathetic nervous system. Essential hypertension is thought to be caused by both genetic and environmental factors, with varying combinations in different individuals. Proposed environmental factors include exposure to chronic stress, obesity, alcohol and salt intake, and physical inactivity. The prevalence of hypertension is related to social factors such as urbanization and education. Several studies, conducted both experimentally in animals and observationally in people, have suggested that chronic social conflict is associated with higher blood pressure. Ambulatory monitoring has shown that most people have their highest pressures during working hours. Occupational stress can be evaluated as job strain, which is a combination of high demands at work with low decision latitude or control. Job strain has been related to coronary heart disease, and a number of studies have shown that it is also associated with higher ambulatory blood pressures, both cross-sectionally and prospectively, in men but not in women. It is likely that environmental and lifestyle facts operate interactively rather than independently to promote hypertension. There is also extensive evidence that overactivity of the sympathetic nervous system plays a role in the development of hypertension, particularly in its early stages. So far it has not been established why this should occur. There are several possible environmental origins, however, and all of the lifestyle factors mentioned above have been shown in at least some studies to operate via the sympathetic nervous system.
Rapid point-of-need detection of bacteria and their toxins in food using gold nanoparticles. Biosensors need to meet the rising food industry demand for sensitive, selective, safe, and fast food safety quality control. Disposable colorimetric sensors based on gold nanoparticles (AuNPs) and localized surface plasmon resonance are low-cost and easy-to-perform devices intended for rapid point-of-need measurements. Recent studies demonstrate various facile and versatile AuNPs-based analytical platforms for the detection of bacteria and their toxins in milk, meat, and other foods. In this review, we introduce the general characteristics and mechanisms of AuNPs calorimetric biosensors, and highlight optimizations needed to strengthen and improve the quality of devices for their application in food matrices.
Blu-ray optomagnetic measurement based competitive immunoassay for Salmonella detection. A turn-on competitive immunoassay using a low-cost Blu-ray optomagnetic setup and two differently sized magnetic particles (micron-sized particles acting as capture particles and nano-sized particles acting as detection particles) is here presented. For Salmonella detection, a limit of detection of 8×104CFU/mL is achieved within a total assay time of 3h. The combination of a competitive strategy and an optomagnetic setup not only enables a turn-on read-out format, but also results in a sensitivity limit about a factor of 20 times lower than of volumetric magnetic stray field detection device based immunoassays. The improvement of sensitivity is enabled by the formation of immuno-magnetic aggregates providing steric hindrance protecting the interior binding sites from interaction with the magnetic nanoparticle labels. The formation of immuno-magnetic aggregates is confirmed by fluorescence microscopy. The system exhibits no visible cross-reaction with other common pathogenic bacteria, even at concentrations as high as 107CFU/mL. Furthermore, we present results when using the setup for a qualitative and homogeneous biplex immunoassay of Escherichia coli and Salmonella typhimurium.
Phylogenetic diversity and cross-inoculation of indigenous isolated Bradyrhizobium from nodules of peanut in Liaoning province of China. Arachis hypogaea. L is a legume of economic importance, which is nodulated by Bradyrhizobium, a slow-growing bacteria. However there is no well characterization of this rhizobia in many areas of China. In the present study, cross-inoculation experiments were performed in cowpea and soybean. The isolated bacteria strains were characterized physiologyically, biochemically and identified through 16S rDNA sequence analysis showing that it belongs to Bradyrhizobium japonicum. The genetic diversity of the seventeen isolated strains were assessed through PCR-RFLP of 16S rDNA and 16S-23S rDNA IGS region. Cross inoculation test indicated that isolates could nodulate cowpea but not soybean. The cluster analysis based on physiological and biochemical characteristics showed the lower correlation between isolates and sites. The isolates were grouped into four clusters based on 16S rDNA gene sequence analysis. Thirteen polymorphisms were variable across all observations in 16S rDNA RFLP and six different IGS types from isolates. The results implies that there was some association between geographical factor and phylogenetic diversity of indigenous Bradyrhizobium isolates.
In-Site Phenotype of the Settlement Space along China’s Grand Canal Tianjin Section: GIS-sDNA-Based Model Analysis. The settlement space along China’s Grand Canal composes an important part of the Canal heritage, has a close bearing on the production and life of the residents there, nourishes rich culture and wisdom and boasts vital value of conservation and inheritance. Due to China’s rapid urbanization and industrialization, the settlements along the canal have been destroyed to some extent and their in-site characteristics urgently need excavation and conservation. Through field investigation, space syntax and GIS analysis, this paper performs quantitative analysis of the in-site characteristics of 18 typical rural settlements there. The findings show that: (1) The settlement space of industry dominant type for commerce and trade is comparatively dynamic and the capacity of topology and integration and the attractive force of the settlement center are stronger. (2) The dynamic scope of the citizens’ everyday traveling in the settlements has the closest correlation with the data of public-service facilities. (3) The settlements along the canal boast multiple, causal and blended in-site phenotype. The research findings provide new standards to categorize the settlements along China’s Grand Canal, paths and methods to explore the characteristics of the settlements and new cognitive perspectives to conserve and renew the settlements along China’s Grand Canal Tianjin Section.
Anti-diabesity potential of various multifunctional natural molecules. Diabesity represents a classic example of a multifactorial disease. The current strategy for the treatment of diabesity is the inhibition of enzymes involved in carbohydrate and lipid metabolism using various drugs. Side effects caused by the drugs available in the market for the treatment of diabesity have necessitated the discovery and development of new novel drugs. In recent years natural molecules have gained importance in the management of multifactorial disease. These molecules are multitargeted in nature and can be useful in the management of diabesity. Some natural molecules are able to regulate gene expression involved in metabolic pathways like adiponectin gene expression, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma. Apart from gene regulation they are able to inhibit the metabolic enzymes like lipases, amylases and glucosidases. Plants present good sources of natural multifunctional molecules. A number of natural molecules including flavonoids have been reported for multifunctionality. The structural configuration of flavonoids affects the enzymatic activity of lipases and glucosidases which can be useful for designing and development of new drugs for targeting diabesity. The consumption of food in the form of medicine can add a new dimension to the existing drug market. The further acceptance of natural molecules will need to be supported by large clinical studies including studies for toxicity and bioavailability. The present review will provide insight into the anti-diabesity potential of multifunctional natural molecules and will also explain some of the natural molecules in terms of biodistribution and safety. Data from clinical studies of a few such natural molecules is also presented.
Oxidative stress in alcohol-related liver disease. Alcohol consumption is one of the leading causes of the global burden of disease and results in high healthcare and economic costs. Heavy alcohol misuse leads to alcohol-related liver disease, which is responsible for a significant proportion of alcohol-attributable deaths globally. Other than reducing alcohol consumption, there are currently no effective treatments for alcohol-related liver disease. Oxidative stress refers to an imbalance in the production and elimination of reactive oxygen species and antioxidants. It plays important roles in several aspects of alcohol-related liver disease pathogenesis. Here, we review how chronic alcohol use results in oxidative stress through increased metabolism via the cytochrome P450 2E1 system producing reactive oxygen species, acetaldehyde and protein and DNA adducts. These trigger inflammatory signaling pathways within the liver leading to expression of pro-inflammatory mediators causing hepatocyte apoptosis and necrosis. Reactive oxygen species exposure also results in mitochondrial stress within hepatocytes causing structural and functional dysregulation of mitochondria and upregulating apoptotic signaling. There is also evidence that oxidative stress as well as the direct effect of alcohol influences epigenetic regulation. Increased global histone methylation and acetylation and specific histone acetylation inhibits antioxidant responses and promotes expression of key pro-inflammatory genes. This review highlights aspects of the role of oxidative stress in disease pathogenesis that warrant further study including mitochondrial stress and epigenetic regulation. Improved understanding of these processes may identify novel targets for therapy.
The complete mitochondrial genome of Garra kempi (Teleostei, Cyprinidae, Garra). Garra kempi, a small-sized economic fish, is mainly distributed in Tibet of China. In this study, we successfully sequenced the first mitochondrial genome of G. kempi. The mitogenome is 17 104 bp in length, containing 13 protein-coding genes, two rRNA genes, 22 tRNA genes, and 2 control regions (D-loop). Unlike the typical mitochondrial genome organization in vertebrate, the tRNAPro gene of G. kempi is located between two control regions, and a 246 bp repeat unit is identified in the second control region. In this paper, we utilized 12 protein-coding genes of G. kempi and other 10 closely species to construct the species phylogenetic tree to verify the accuracy of G. kempi.
Distinct fungal plastisphere across different river functional zones: A watershed scale study. Fungi not only play important roles in biogeochemical processes but also can form biofilm on plastic debris. However, knowledge of structure composition and spatiotemporal pattern of fungal plastisphere on different kinds of plastic debris in river with specific usages, known as river functional zones, is still missing. In this study, we investigated the spatial distribution of the fungal plastisphere across a complete urban river with different functional zones (drinking, farm irrigation, aquaculture, and tail lake). Our research was performed based on both field residual plastic debris collection and a 30-day field in situ incubation experiments. Our study revealed that plastic debris enriched distinct fungal communities (including pathogenic fungi) significantly different from the surrounding water. Tracking the source of the fungi colonized on plastic debris suggested that the fungal taxa colonized on the different kinds of plastic debris were not from the surrounding water. Human activities had considerable effects on the fungal community structure on plastic debris, and the plastisphere fungal community structure strikingly varied across different river functional zones. Plastisphere may be used as an indicator for fungi biogeography and pathogenic fungi pollution in river with different functional zones. These findings are essential for ecological risk assessment and management decisions for pollution control of plastic debris and maintaining ecological health.
Green Synthesized of Thymus vulgaris Chitosan Nanoparticles Induce Relative WRKY-Genes Expression in Solanum lycopersicum against Fusarium solani, the Causal Agent of Root Rot Disease. Fusarium solani is a plant pathogenic fungus that causes tomato root rot disease and yield losses in tomato production. The current study’s main goal is testing the antibacterial efficacy of chitosan nanoparticles loaded with Thyme vulgaris essential oil (ThE-CsNPs) against F. solani in vitro and in vivo. GC-MS analysis was used to determine the chemical constituents of thyme EO. ThE-CsNPs were investigated using transmission electron microscopy before being physicochemically characterized using FT-IR. ThE-CsNPs were tested for antifungal activity against F. solani mycelial growth in vitro. A pot trial was conducted to determine the most effective dose of ThE-CsNPs on the morph/physiological characteristics of Solanum lycopersicum, as well as the severity of fusarium root rot. The relative gene expression of WRKY transcript factors and defense-associated genes were quantified in root tissues under all treatment conditions. In vitro results revealed that ThE-CsNPs (1%) had potent antifungal efficacy against F. solani radial mycelium growth. The expression of three WRKY transcription factors and three tomato defense-related genes was upregulated. Total phenolic, flavonoid content, and antioxidant enzyme activity were all increased. The outfindings of this study strongly suggested the use of ThE-CsNPs in controlling fusarium root rot on tomatoes; however, other experiments remain necessary before they are recommended.
Nanoparticle Superlattices as Quasi-Frank-Kasper Phases. I show that all phases reported experimentally in binary nanoparticle superlattices can be described as networks of disclinations in an ideal lattice of regular tetrahedra. A set of simple rules is provided to identify the different disclination types from the Voronoi construction, and it is shown that those disclinations completely screen the positive curvature of the ideal tetrahedral lattice. In this way, this study provides a generalization of the well-known Frank-Kasper phases to binary systems consisting of two types of particles, and with a more general type of disclinations, i.e., quasi-Frank-Kasper phases. The study comprises all strategies in nanoparticle self-assembly, whether driven by DNA or hydrocarbon ligands, and establishes the universal tendency of superlattices to develop icosahedral order, which is facilitated by the asymmetry of the particles. Besides its interest in predicting nanoparticle self-assembly, I discuss the implications for models of the glass transition, micelles of diblock polymers, and dendritic molecules, among many others.
Recovery of Natural α-Ionone from Fermentation Broth. Recently, the market value of aromas has constantly been rising. Because the supply from natural feedstock is limited, the biotechnological production has received more interest. Thus far, only a few attempts have been made to produce α-ionone, a valued essential aroma of raspberry, biotechnologically. This study reports a production process for enantiopure (R)-α-ionone from lab scale (2-150 L) with typical titer of 285 mg/L broth to industrial scale (up to 10â»000 L) with a titer up to 400 mg/L broth, focusing on the development of a downstream process with a maximized yield at minimized effort. The developed recovery consists of solid-liquid extraction from the biomass at Ï† = 0.4 g of n-hexane/g of biomass for 90 min at ambient temperature and adsorption from the aqueous supernatant at φ = 0.5 g of Diaion HP-20/mg of α-ionone, followed by desorption at ψ = 30 g of n-hexane/g of Diaion HP-20. Altogether, natural α-ionone could be gained in substantial quantity and purity of >95%.
Development of monodispersed and functional magnetic polymeric liposomes via simple liposome method. We are reporting a simple and rapid method to prepare superparamagnetic, controlled size, and monodispersed magnetic cationic polymeric liposomes (MCPL) by octadecyl quaternized carboxymethyl chitosan (OQCMC) and cholesterol. The whole process is only about 25 min with simple thinfilm dispersion and solvent evaporation method. Hydrophilic magnetic nanoparticles (LM) and hydrophobic magnetic nanoparticles (BM) can be encapsulated into these cationic polymeric liposomes, simultaneously or respectively. A model hydrophobic drug indomethacin can be successfully filled in MCPL with high drug loading capacity 22%. MCPL encapsulating BM also showed strong DNA (pEGFP) binding ability. Drug-loaded MCPL have a long and controlled sustained release profile by changing the number of polymeric lipid layer. These functional MCPL nanospheres can be allowed to serve as ideal candidates for many biomedical applications.
Genetic diversity and identification of race 3 of Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. lactucae in Taiwan. Fusarium wilt disease of lettuce (Lactuca sativa L.) is one of the major threats to the production of lettuce in Taiwan. This disease is caused by the vascular wilt pathogen Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. lactucae. It is important for the lettuce breeders to identify the pathological races of F. oxysporum f. sp. lactucae in the course of developing F. oxysporum f. sp. lactucae-resistant cultivars for growers. Recently, race 3 of F. oxysporum f. sp. lactucae was identified in Taiwan based on the results of pathogenicity tests against three differential lettuce cultivars, Patriot, Costa Rica No. 4, and Banchu Red Fire, along with some Japanese F. oxysporum f. sp. lactucae reference strains for comparison. In our collected F. oxysporum f. sp. lactucae isolates, most isolates from Taiwan were identified as race 1 except two isolates, Fola-10 and Fola-40 collected from Taoyuan County identified as race 3. This is the first report of F. oxysporum f. sp. lactucae race 3 outside of Japan. The PCR-based tagging technique with the four reference markers was used to confirm the results of pathogenicity tests. In addition, genetic diversity between races of F. oxysporum f. sp. lactucae was also observed according to the results of random amplification of polymorphic DNA (RAPD) fingerprintings.
Patterns in genotype composition of indian isolates of the bombyx mori nucleopolyhedrovirus and bombyx mori bidensovirus. The mulberry silkworm, Bombyx mori (L.), is a model organism of lepidopteran insects with high economic importance. The viral diseases of the silkworm caused by Bombyx mori nucleopolyhedrovirus (BmNPV) and Bombyx mori bidensovirus (BmBDV) inflict huge economic losses and significantly impact the sericulture industry of India and other countries. To understand the distribution of Indian isolates of the BmNPV and to investigate their genetic composition, an in-depth population structure analysis was conducted using comprehensive and newly developed genomic analysis methods. The seven new Indian BmNPV isolates from Anantapur, Dehradun, Ghumarwin, Jammu, Kashmir, Mysore and Salem grouped in the BmNPV clade, and are most closely related to Autographa californica multiple nucleopolyhedrovirus and Rachiplusia ou multiple nucleopolyhedrovirus on the basis of gene sequencing and phylogenetic analyses of the partial polh, lef-8 and lef-9 gene fragments. The whole genome sequencing of three Indian BmNPV isolates from Mysore (-My), Jammu (-Ja) and Dehradun (-De) was conducted, and intra-isolate genetic variability was analyzed on the basis of variable SNP positions and the frequencies of alternative nucleotides. The results revealed that the BmNPV-De and BmNPV-Ja isolates are highly similar in their genotypic composition, whereas the population structure of BmNPV-My appeared rather pure and homogenous, with almost no or few genetic variations. The BmNPV-De and BmNPV-Ja samples further contained a significant amount of BmBDV belonging to the Bidnaviridae family. We elucidated the genotype composition within Indian BmNPV and BmBDV isolates, and the results presented have broad implications for our understanding of the genetic diversity and evolution of BmNPV and co-occurring BmBDV isolates.
Characterization by culture-dependent and culture-independent methods of the bacterial population of suckling-lamb packaged in different atmospheres. This study offers insight into the dynamics of bacterial populations in fresh cuts of suckling lamb under four different atmospheric conditions: air (A), and three Modified Atmosphere Packaging (MAP) environments, 15%O2/30%CO2/55%N2 (C, commercial), 70%O2/30%CO2 (O), and 15%O2/85%CO2 (H) for 18 days. Microbial analyses by both conventional methods and PCR-DGGE were performed. Controversial and surprising results emerged from comparing both methods in relation to the genus Pseudomonas. Thus, conventional methods detected the presence of high numbers of Pseudomonas colonies, although PCR-DGGE only detected this genus in air-packaged samples. PCR-DGGE detected higher microbial diversity in the control samples (A) than in the modified atmospheres (C, O, H), having atmosphere H the fewest number of species. Brochothrix thermosphacta, LAB (Carnobacterium divergens and Lactobacillus sakei), and Escherichia spp. were detected in all the atmospheres throughout storage. Moreover, previously undescribed bacteria from lamb meat such as Enterobacter hormaechei, Staphylococcus equorum and Jeotgalicoccus spp. were also isolated in this study by DGGE. Additionally, qPCR analysis was used to detect and characterize strains of E scherichia coli. Virulence genes (stx1, stx2 and eae) were detected throughout storage in 97% of the samples. A high CO2 atmosphere was the most effective packaging combination doubling storage time in comparison with commercial atmosphere.
Fruit derived edible vaccines: Natural way for the vaccination. Vaccine is a biological preparation which is used to establish or improve immunity to a particular disease. The usual traditional vaccines are generally microsomal preparations which can be harmful & cannot be tolerated by small babies to be vaccinated. To overcome such problems. Fruit Drug Delivery System is introduced, where the vaccination is done by means of fruit which synthesize the antigenic material that provides immunization to vaccinated patient. This system has vast advantages over traditional one as the fruits are tasty, natural way of vaccination. These are also called as subunit vaccines. Normally to make a subunit vaccine, the gene for one of the protein for one of the infectious agents, such as bacteria & viruses, is produced in another system. The plant thus shows synthesis of that protein in fruit. The proteins targeted for use in subunit vaccine are antigens, which may be thought of as the molecular structure of pathogen. In viruses, antigens are usually proteins which appear on the surface of virus & are well recognized by immune system. If humans are exposed to the antigens, they recognize it as a foreign molecule & develop an immune response against it, if exposed to real bacteria or virus; their system can mount an effective & protective effect. The edible fruits are very effective as a delivery vehicle for inducing oral immunization, adjuvant for immune response is not necessary, excellent safety and economic feasibility of oral administration compared to injection are some potent advantages over traditional vaccines.
Phosphorylcholine functionalized dendrimers for the formation of highly stable and reactive gold nanoparticles and their glucose conjugation for biosensing. Phosphorylcholine (PC)-functionalized poly(amido amine) (PAMAM) dendrimers were prepared and used as both reducing and stabilizing agents for synthesis of highly stable and reactive gold nanoparticles (Au NPs). Biomimetic PC-functionalized PAMAM dendrimers-stabilized gold nanoparticles (Au DSNPs) were formed by simply mixing the PC modified amine-terminated fifth-generation PAMAM dendrimers (G5-PC) with AuCl-4 ions by controlling the pH, no additional reducing agents or other stabilizers were needed. The obtained Au DSNPs were shown to be spherical, with particle diameters ranging from 5 to 12 nm, the sizes and growth kinetics of Au DSNPs could be tuned by changing the pH and the initial molar ratio of dendrimers to gold as indicated by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and UV-Vis data. The prepared Au DSNPs showed excellent stability including: (1) stable at wide pH (7-13) values; (2) stable at high salt concentrations up to 2 M NaCl; (3) non-specific protein adsorption resistance. More importantly, surface functionalization could be performed by introducing desired functional groups onto the remained reactive amine groups. This was exemplified by the glucose conjugation. The glucose conjugated Au DSNPs showed bio-specific interaction with Concanavalin A (Con A), which induced aggregation of the Au NPs. Colorimetric detection of Con A based on the plasmon resonance of the glucose conjugated Au DSNPs was realized. A limit of detection (LOD) for Con A was 0.6 μM, based on a signal-to-noise ratio (S/N) of 3. These findings demonstrated that the PC modified Au DSNPs could potentially serve as a versatile nano-platform for the biomedical applications.
Comparative investigation of antibotic resistance genes between wastewater and landfill leachate. The increasing output of wastewater and landfill leachate during the rapid urbanization exacerbated the human health risks induced by antibiotic resistance genes(ARGs). For further insight into antibiotic resistance genes(ARGs) of wastewater (adding leachate before treatment) and landfill leachate, high-throughput qPCR technique was used to investigate their abundance and diversities. A total of 187 unique ARGs were detected in wastewater, which was significantly higher than that in leachate (39 unique ARGs were detected)(P<0.05). A total of 119 antibiotic resistance genes were significantly enriched in wastewater compared with the landfill leachate (P<0.05), especially the tnpA-04 and blaVEB, which belongs to mobile gene elements(MGEs) and β-Lactamase, increased by 3 338-fold and 1 061-fold, respectively. Our results showed that the profile of ARGs was significantly different between the wastewater and leachate, and the wastewater was the important reservoir of ARGs.
Electrochemical aptasensor based on anisotropically modified (Janus-type) gold nanoparticles for determination of C-reactive protein. Novel Janus nanoparticles based on Au colloids anisotropically modified with polyamidoamine dendrons were prepared though a masking/toposelective modification approach. These nanomaterials were further functionalized with horseradish peroxidase on the dendritic face and provided on the opposite metal surface with a ssDNA aptamer for C-reactive protein (CRP). The resulting nanoparticles were employed as biorecognition/signaling elements to construct an amperometric aptasensor with sandwich-type architecture for the specific detection of this cardiac biomarker. To do this, screen-printed carbon electrodes modified with electrodeposited Au nanoparticles and functionalized with anti-CRP aptamers were used as transduction interface. The aptasensor was employed for the amperometric detection of CRP (working potential: − 200 mV vs pseudo-Ag/AgCl) in the broad range from 10 pg·mL−1 to 1.0 ng·mL−1 with a detection limit of 3.1 pg·mL−1. This electroanalytical device also showed good specificity, reproducibility (RSD = 9.8%, n = 10), and stability and was useful to quantify CRP in reconstituted human serum samples, with a RSD of 13.3%. Graphical abstract: [Figure not available: see fulltext.]
The New World Bays (Litsea, Lauraceae). A Botanical, Chemical, Pharmacological and Ecological Review in Relation to their Traditional and Potential Applications as Phytomedicines. The genus Litsea (Lauraceae) comprises eight species in the American Continent collectively known as “laurel”. Here, we review their botany, ethnobotany, ecology, chemistry and pharmacology to promote their international recognition, and to outline their use as condiments and as potential sources of novel phytomedicines. “Laurel” leaves are widely used as a spice and in traditional medicine throughout Mexico and Central America. The leaves of these species are harvested mainly from wild populations in temperate forests. The most used and studied species is L. glaucescens, which is listed as endangered in Mexico. Its leaves are traded throughout the country and even exported. However, in an international context, they are considered substitutes for the Mediterranean “bay leaf” (Laurus nobilis). Several folk medicinal applications of L. glaucescens and other species of Litsea have been experimentally validated in vitro. Although most active principles are yet to be discovered, some species may be suitable to develop new phytomedicines, especially as antidepressants and anti-inflammatory. However, research on the systematics, phytochemistry, ecology and genetics of the American species of Litsea is scarce. Further research will allow the development of such phytomedicines through the rational exploitation of natural populations or the establishment of plantations, thus avoiding “laurel” to follow the fate of numerous Mesoamerican floristic resources which have been depleted, while their economic and medicinal potential remained largely untapped.
Nanocapsules: The weapons for novel drug delivery systems. Introduction: Nanocapsules, existing in miniscule size, range from 10 nm to 1000 nm. They consist of a liquid/solid core in which the drug is placed into a cavity, which is surrounded by a distinctive polymer membrane made up of natural or synthetic polymers. They have attracted great interest, because of the protective coating, which are usually pyrophoric and easily oxidized and delay the release of active ingredients. Methods: Various technical approaches are utilized for obtaining the nanocapsules; however, the methods of interfacial polymerization for monomer and the nano-deposition for preformed polymer are chiefly preferred. Most important characteristics in their preparation is particle size and size distribution which can be evaluated by using various techniques like X-ray diffraction, scanning electron microscopy, transmission electron microscopy, high-resolution transmission electron microscopy, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, superconducting quantum interference device, multi angle laser light scattering and other spectroscopic techniques. Results: Nanocapsules possessing extremely high reproducibility have a broad range of life science applications. They may be applied in agrochemicals, genetic engineering, cosmetics, cleansing products, wastewater treatments, adhesive component applications, strategic delivery of the drug in tumors, nanocapsule bandages to fight infection, in radiotherapy and as liposomal nanocapsules in food science and agriculture. In addition, they can act as self-healing materials. Conclusion: The enhanced delivery of bioactive molecules through the targeted delivery by means of a nanocapsule opens numerous challenges and opportunities for the research and future development of novel improved therapies.
A novel way for detection of antiparkinsonism drug entacapone via electrodeposition of silver nanoparticles/functionalized multi-walled carbon nanotubes as an amperometric sensor. Silver (Ag) nanoparticles were electrochemically deposited on the film of a metformin functionalized multi-walled carbon nanotube modified glassy carbon electrode (Met-MWCNT/GCE), which fabricated an Ag@Met-MWCNT nanocomposite sensor (Ag@Met-MWCNT/GCE) to detect entacapone (ENT). The Ag@Met-MWCNT nanocomposite was characterized by field emission scanning electrochemical microscopy (FESEM), X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis, FT-IR and electrochemical tests. The modified electrode showed a large electrocatalytic activity for reduction of ENT. This improved activity indicates that Met@MWCNT plays a crucial role in the dispersion and stabilization of Ag nanoparticles on GCE. Under the optimized conditions the linear range for the detection of the ENT was obtained to be 0.05 to 70.0 μM with a low detection limit of 15.3 nM. The proposed sensor can effectively analyse ENT concentration in pharmaceutical formulations and human urine samples, avoiding interference, and is a promising ENT sensor due to good sensitivity, stability and low cost.
Multigene phylogeny and HPLC analysis reveal fake Ophiocordyceps sinensis in markets. Ophiocordyceps sinensis (Cordyceps sinensis) has long been a Chinese Traditional Medicine and functional food in China. Because of its valued medicinal effect and improvement in the Chinese economy, market demand for O. sinensis has significantly increased in recent years. Here, we use multigene and High Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC) analysis of specimens bought from markets to reveal the sale of fake O. sinensis in Traditional Chinese Medicine markets. The insect larvae (belonging to Lepidopteran) was a different species to that normally infected by O. sinensis. Combined sequence analysis of ITS, nrSSU, EF-1α and RPB1 gene markers also revealed the putative O. sinensis to be Metacordyceps taii. Producers had gone to great lengths to produce remarkably similar fake O. sinensis specimens. The insect body was infected with M. taii, but the fungus stromata were made from a Ligularia hodgsonii stem that had been molded into stromata and stuck into the insect body. We analyzed the nucleoside constitutes of the insect bodies and fake Cordyceps stromata which were very different to those of authentic wild O. sinensis samples from Tibet. It is not clear what the consumers of these products are actually ingesting and whether it may be harmful. In the future, sequence data should be used to test the authenticity of O. sinensis, and the development a real-time PCR assay for species-specific diagnosis is needed. The use of multi-gene phylogeny could have a wide application in verification of other Traditional Chinese Medicined and fungal biotechnology products.
Calibration of rail transit assignment model with automated fare collection data and a parallel genetic algorithm. In recent years, cities around the world have begun to use automated fare collection (AFC) systems with smart card technologies as the main method of collecting urban rail transit (URT) fares. Transaction data obtained through these AFC systems contain a large amount of archived information about how passengers use the UKT system. These data can be used to calibrate assignment models for precise passenger How calculations. However, this calibration typically is a computationally intensive problem because of multiroute searches, iteration strategies, and especially massive AFC data sets. This paper proposes a methodology lor calibrating UKT assignment models witli AFC data and a parallel genetic algorithm. The calibration approach uses a framework based on a parallel genetic algorithm with nonparamctric statistical techniques, which calibrate assignment model parameters by comparing observed and calculated travel time distributions. In initial case studies on the UKT network in lleijing, the proposed approach found reasonable solutions for the calibrated parameters.
System-Level Optimization to Improve Biofuel Potential via Genetic Engineering and Hydrothermal Liquefaction. The economic viability of biofuels and bioproducts depends on system-level optimization including biomass production and conversion. Hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL) can convert wet biomass such as microalgae into a biofuel intermediate (BFI) under elevated temperatures and pressure. An understanding of the impacts of biomass composition on BFI yield and quality can inform genetic engineering strategies in the improvement of biochemical composition for biofuel production. In this work, wild type cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 biomass was doped with various common cellular storage compounds in lab-scale HTL experiments. Doping with glycogen or polyhydroxybutyrate (PHB) significantly reduced BFI yields, while doping with triglycerides (TAG) or medium chain-length polyhydroxyalkanoate (mcl-PHA) increased BFI yield and quality. In light of these observations, a genetically engineered Synechocystis strain deficient in glycogen biosynthesis was cultivated to produce biomass for HTL, leading to a 17% increase in BFI yield. In addition, we built a multiphase component additivity (MCA) model that can predict BFI yield and quality with PHAs in the biomass. This work demonstrates an effective strategy to integrate strain development with downstream biomass conversion to maximize biofuel yield, with lessons applicable to microalgae as well as other biomass.
Physical statistical algorithm for precipitable water vapor inversion on land surface based on multi-source remotely sensed data. Water vapor plays a crucial role in atmospheric processes that act over a wide range of temporal and spatial scales, from global climate to micrometeorology. The determination of water vapor distribution in the atmosphere and its changing pattern is very important. Although atmospheric scientists have developed a variety of means to measure precipitable water vapor (PWV) using remote sensing data that have been widely used, there are some limitations in using one kind satellite measurements for PWV retrieval over land. In this paper, a new algorithm is proposed for retrieving PWV over land by combining different kinds of remote sensing data and it would work well under the cloud weather conditions. The PWV retrieval algorithm based on near infrared data is more suitable to clear sky conditions with high precision. The 23.5 GHz microwave remote sensing data is sensitive to water vapor and powerful in cloud-covered areas because of its longer wavelengths that permit viewing into and through the atmosphere. Therefore, the PWV retrieval results from near infrared data and the indices combined by microwave bands remote sensing data which are sensitive to water vapor will be regressed to generate the equation for PWV retrieval under cloud covered areas. The algorithm developed in this paper has the potential to detect PWV under all weather conditions and makes an excellent complement to PWV retrieved by near infrared data. Different types of surface exert different depolarization effects on surface emissions, which would increase the complexity of the algorithm. In this paper, MODIS surface classification data was used to consider this influence. Compared with the GPS results, the root mean square error of our algorithm is 8 mm for cloud covered area. Regional consistency was found between the results from MODIS and our algorithm. Our algorithm can yield reasonable results on the surfaces covered by cloud where MODIS cannot be used to retrieve PWV.
Skin tests and atopic allergy in children. The onset of asthma has been found to follow a similar pattern in boys and girls. Eczema is associated with early onset of asthma, with frequent positive skin reactions and with a history of food allergy. Wealing reactions to inhalant allergens are commoner in later childhood and are more often large, exceeding 5 mm in diameter, in children over 5 than in those under 5. Skin reactions to foods are also more common in older children but large reactions to foods show less tendency to be commoner over the age of 5. Children born in tropical countries had less atopic disease than children of similar race born in England or than English children. Although asthmatic children, wherever they were born, frequently gave positive skin reactions to mite extracts it is possible that the total ‘allergic bombardment’ to which children are exposed in England is greater than it is in tropical countries and that this may explain the difference in prevalence of atopic disease which is not explainable on genetic grounds.
FDA to evaluate direct-to-consumer genetic tests on case-by-case basis. FDA is aimed to determine on a case-by-case basis whether direct-to-consumer (DTC) genetic tests should be restricted and made available only through a doctor. The DTC tests have received considerable attention in May 2010 when FDA objected to Pathway Genomics' efforts to market an over-the-counter test collection kit through Walgreens drug stores because it was outside the boundaries of the regulatory safe harbor for such tests. FDA is also planning to develop an online repository of medical device labeling and a public database of device photographs. FDA will develop an innovation strategy that requires the participation and input of all centers and offices. In March, FDA clarified that device manufacturers and importers of all devices must continue to submit malfunction reports, as mandated by the agency's medical device reporting regulation, until further notice.
Medicine as microcosm: Pharmaceutical bioprospecting and the political epistemology of nature in industrial–capitalist and indigenous Amazonian societies. Dynamics of economic and spatial rationalization are widely acknowledged characteristics of industrial–capitalist society, but the way in which these dynamics might shape the incorporation of so-called natural spaces into regimes of regulation and valuation is still being conceptualized in political ecology. Extending on the work of theorists who have documented and theorized the extension of neoliberal governance regimes over nature, this article argues that even the knowledge of nature produced in industrial–capitalist society is circumscribed by the biases inherent in its socio-cultural heritage. The argument, which can be described as a political epistemology of nature, is advanced by reference to medical science and industrial pharmacy, which has sought to understand and apprehend the value of nature via pharmaceutical bioprospecting research on medicinal plants. An analysis of one such project, pursued in the indigenous Aguaruna territory of the Peruvian Amazon, illustrates that the same processes of economic and spatial rationalization characteristic of industrial–capitalist society can be seen to recur in its production of knowledge about nature. Pharmaceutical bioprospecting evidences the extension of the rationalization of society and space to the molecular and genetic level, such that medicine becomes the microcosm to the macrocosm of industrial–capitalist society. The article goes on to compare the pharmaceutical industry’s epistemology of nature with non-profit research on indigenous people’s medicinal plants, and finally with the epistemology of nature evidenced in ancestral health-seeking practices of the Shuar, an indigenous Amazonian group bordering the Aguaruna. Drawing on the author’s fieldwork, a comparative analysis of these distinct epistemologies of nature is developed that illustrates a spectrum of constraints upon the agency of nature, each of which to differing extents pre-forms nature’s modes of action, at the same time as that action can never be fully determined by those constraints.
Scale-up and control the voltage of sediment microbial fuel cell for charging a cell phone. In this research, a power management system (PMS) has been developed to charge a cell phone battery based on sediment microbial fuel cells (SMFCs). The single SMFC produces a voltage of 1.16 V, which is too low for practical application. The voltage is increased by connecting several SMFCs in series or parallel, but the voltage reversal occurs when it is directly connected to the load. To prevent the voltage reversal, the super capacitor is first charged by the five different stack SMFCs and the charged super capacitor is used to provide the input power to a PMS. This PMS increases and regulates the input voltage of stack SMFCs up to 5.02 V for charging a cell phone battery. The charging and discharging times of the super capacitors have been investigated with five different stack SMFCs. In all five stack SMFCs, only module-5 provides power to PMS for long periods (13 min). Further, the cell phone battery is continuously charged using the two parallel-connected stack SMFCs similar to the module-5. The battery has been fully charged in 26 h using 72 SMFCs. The charged battery is used to perform for three purposes; voice calling, music playing and LED strip lighting. This study is informative for the application of SMFC in an off-grid location.
A financial analysis of using improved planting stock of white spruce and lodgepole pine in Alberta, Canada: Genomic selection versus traditional breeding. Genomics-assisted tree breeding (GATB) is an emerging biotechnology method that has the potential to produce improved planting stock in selected traits, such as greater volume or higher wood quality, more quickly and effectively compared with traditional field-based breeding (TB) methods. In this study, we conducted an ex-ante stand-level financial benefit-cost analysis that is linked to a provincial tree growth and yield projection model to investigate the potential financial benefits of using improved white spruce (Picea glauca (Moench) Voss) and lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta Dougl. var. latifolia Engelm.) planting stock identified via alternative tree improvement strategies (i.e. GATB vs. TB methods) for forest companies in the province of Alberta, Canada. With consideration of major tree breeding and establishment costs, expected sawlog price premiums at harvest, a shorter breeding cycle time, and additional genetic gain in volume achieved from using the GATB method relative to the TB method in the financial analysis; this study found that the use of GATB-selected third-generation planting stock was difficult to justify economically alone compared with TB-selected seedlings under the current sawlog market value and the current planting rate with improved stock in the province. However, results of our sensitivity analysis also revealed that the GATB method is: (1) more financially supported at lower discount rates; (2) strongly supported through decreased seedling costs with increased areas planted with improved stock; and (3) strongly supported through an increase in log price premiums at harvest resulting from potentially better wood quality and higher volume production relative to TB-selected stock. The findings of this study highlight several important market and biophysical factors that forest managers should take into account when adopting biotechnology in forestry.
Simulating wood quality in forest management models. The raw material properties of wood develop as the tree grows, laying down wood cells with specific properties, and forming the stem structure that is the basis of timber quality. This development is influenced by genetic and environmental factors and forest management practices. It is desirable in growth and yield models intended for the economic assessment of management practices to include some indication of wood quality and how it is affected by genetics, environmental factors and silvicultural measures. In forestry, understanding the development and variation of wood quality is important for different management and planning problems which can be broadly classified under (1) management for harvest operations, and (2) long-term silvicultural planning. This paper reviews approaches and models that allow us to study these two problems in quantitative terms. We start the review by discussing the concept of «wood quality model», then classify the approaches on the basis of their complexity, underlying principle and intended application. We illustrate three advanced dynamic quality models and their applications with example case studies. These include empirical, hybrid, and mechanistic models applied to predictions of both sawn timber and fibre properties. Finally, we consider the current challenges for wood quality modelling in connection with forest management.
Green silver nanoparticles for drug transport, bioactivities and a bacterium (: Bacillus subtilis)-mediated comparative nano-patterning feature. The 'green' synthetic aspects of functionally potent and biologically relevant nanomaterials are a crucial research objective. Pursuing this concept, we have investigated a green synthetic scheme for the sunlight-mediated generation of luminescent silver nanoparticles, which become stabilized via a supramolecular hydrogel (SHGel) network, as already reported by our group. In vitro and in vivo toxicity studies confirm the biologically relevant nature of SHGel-capped Ag NPs. Nontoxic SHGel-capped Ag NPs were intelligently used for the transport of drugs, including antifilarial and antibiotic agents, into cells. Apart from this activity, SHGel-capped Ag NPs and our previously reported nontoxic DNA hydrogel-capped Ag NPs are potent against pathogens and parasites. Most interestingly, the nanostructural patterns of SHGel- and DNA hydrogel-capped Ag NPs have been transformed into cotyledon- and flower bud-shaped forms of nanosilver, respectively, during their chemotherapeutic action against a particular bacterium, Bacillus subtilis. Transmission electron microscopy was used for the visualization of several patterns of nanosilver and the incorporation of Ag NPs into macrophages.
Waves in open systems via a biorthogonal basis. Dissipative quantum systems are sometimes phenomenologically described in terms of a non-Hermitian Hamiltonian [Formula Presented], with different left and right eigenvectors forming a biorthogonal basis. It is shown that the dynamics of waves in open systems can be cast exactly into this form, thus providing a well-founded realization of the phenomenological description and at the same time placing these open systems into a well-known framework. The formalism leads to a generalization of norms and inner products for open systems, which in contrast to earlier works is finite without the need for regularization. The inner product allows transcription of much of the formalism for conservative systems, including perturbation theory and second quantization.
Analyzing software science data with partial repeatability. Halstead's software science postulates that there exist physics-like laws that obey each piece of software. In this paper we reexamine this postulate by using two datasets collected from real programs, and argue that software science data are featured with partial repeatability. Conventional sciences embody the nature of full repeatability in the sense that they can either be proved repeatably in mathematics or be validated to a high accuracy repeatably in physics (experimentally). By partial repeatability we mean that complex phenomena may demonstrate an invariant property that neither can be proved in mathematics nor validated to a high accuracy in physics, but still (partially) governs the behavior of the phenomena. We propose a new kind of mathematical model, namely, parepeatic model, to characterize partial repeatability quantitatively. A parepeatic model defines the relationship between a central function and a fluctuation zone and identifies the degree of correctness of the relationship without making any statistical assumption. We develop parepeatic models for the relationships among several program complexity measures including the number of distinct operators, the number of distinct operands and the program length, among others, and present some new findings about the relationships. Illustrative case study shows that the developed parepeatic models can really help software engineering practice.
Development of a sensitive real-time PCR detection method for citrus tatter leaf virus. Citrus tatter leaf virus (CTLV) is a graft-transmissible capillovirus that causes the tatter leaf disease of citrus and bud union incompatibility between scion and trifoliate hybrid rootstocks which can result in serious economic losses. Although several CTLV detection protocols have been described, there is a need for a highly sensitive protocol that can be used in routine diagnostic tests for virus-free budwood certification programs. To address this need, a TaqMan® chemistry based real time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) assay was developed to detect CTLV from citrus plants. The nucleotide sequence analysis based on full genomic sequences of eight CTLV isolates available from GenBank showed that 3′ region of the viral genome is more conserved among different CTLV isolates than the rest of the viral genome. A new set of primers and a TaqMan® probe were designed from a conserved 500 nt-long fragment at the 3′ end of the CTLV genome for the detection of CTLV by RT-qPCR. The newly designed primers for CTLV RT-qPCR assay had ca. 98.6% amplification efficiency and showed 100% CTLV detection rate when they were tested for previously known CTLV-positive trees infected with different CTLV isolates. The sequencing of 132 bp-long RT-qPCR amplicon followed by BLASTn search showed that it had 94% to 98% sequence identity to those of various CTLV isolates available in GenBank, confirming the specificity of the assay to reliably detect CTLV.
A new bio-inspired, population-level approach to the socioeconomic evolution of dynamic spectrum access services. Evolutionary species and quasispecies models provide the universal and flexible basis for a large-scale description of the dynamics of evolutionary systems, which can be built conceived as a constraint satisfaction dynamics. It represents a general framework to design and study many novel, technologically contemporary models and their variants. Here, we apply the classical quasispecies concept to model the emerging dynamic spectrum access (DSA) markets. The theory describes the mechanisms of mimetic transfer, competitive interactions between socioeconomic strata of the end-users, their perception of the utility and inter-operator switching in the variable technological environments of the operators offering the wireless spectrum services. The algorithmization and numerical modeling demonstrate the long-Term evolutionary socioeconomic changes which reflect the end-user preferences and results of the majorization of their irrational decisions in the same manner as the prevailing tendencies which are embodied in the efficient market hypothesis.
Advances in the clinical translation of nanotechnology. The use of novel materials in the nano-scale size range for applications in devices, drugs and diagnostic agents comes with a number of new opportunities, and also serious challenges to human applications. The larger size of particulate-based agents, as compared to traditional drugs, allows for the significant advantages of multivalency and multi-functionality. However, the human use of nanomaterials requires a thorough understanding of the biocompatibility of the synthetic molecules and their complex pharmacology. Possible toxicities created by the unusual properties of the nanoparticles are neither well-understood, nor predictable yet. A key to the successful use of the burgeoning field of nanomaterials as diagnostic and therapeutic agents will be to appropriately match the biophysical features of the particle to the disease system to be evaluated or treated.
A genome-wide genetic linkage map and reference quality genome sequence for a new race in the wheat pathogen Pyrenophora tritici-repentis. Pyrenophora tritici-repentis is an ascomycete fungus that causes tan spot of wheat. The disease has a worldwide distribution and can cause significant yield and quality losses in wheat production. The fungal pathogen is homothallic in nature, which means it can undergo sexual reproduction by selfing to produce pseudothecia on wheat stubble for seasonal survival. Since homothallism precludes the development of bi-parental fungal populations, no genetic linkage map has been developed for P. tritici-repentis for mapping and map-based cloning of fungal virulence genes. In this work, we created two heterothallic strains by deleting one of the mating type genes in each of two parental isolates 86–124 (race 2) and AR CrossB10 (a new race) and developed a bi-parental fungal population between them. The draft genome sequences of the two parental isolates were aligned to the Pt-1C-BFP reference sequence to mine single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). A total of 225 SNP markers were developed for genotyping the entire population. Additionally, 75 simple sequence repeat, and two gene markers were also developed and used in the genotyping. The resulting linkage map consisted of 13 linkage groups spanning 5,075.83 cM in genetic distance. Because the parental isolate AR CrossB10 is a new race and produces Ptr ToxC, it was sequenced using long-read sequencing platforms and de novo assembled into contigs. The majority of the contigs were further anchored into chromosomes with the aid of the linkage maps. The whole genome comparison of AR CrossB10 to the reference genome of M4 revealed a few chromosomal rearrangements. The genetic linkage map and the new AR CrossB10 genome sequence are valuable tools for gene cloning in P. tritici-repentis.
Effect of Chinese rice wine sludge on the production of Chinese steamed buns. Chinese rice wine sludge (CRWS), analogous to beer yeast sludge, is the filter cake remaining after squeezing the fermentation mash of Chinese rice wine. CRWS contains high levels of protein (44.74%), nonstructural carbohydrates (37.33%), crude fiber (13.5%), and essential amino acids, which could enhance the trophic value of Chinese steamed buns. In our research, the microbiota of CRWS (mainly Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Lactobacillus sp.) was analyzed at the species level by single-molecule real-time DNA sequencing technology. Interestingly, the microbiota of CRWS was similar to that of the starter dough typically used to prepare Chinese steamed buns. Incorporation of CRWS significantly influenced the pasting properties and farinograph characteristics of the dough, which control the texture of the Chinese steamed buns, and supplementation with 5∼30% CRWS caused the properties of the resulting buns to be more similar to those of northern-style steamed buns. CRWS addition also significantly enhanced the content of aroma compounds in the Chinese steamed buns. Practical applications: In China, approximately three million tons of CRWS is produced per year, and the reutilization of CRWS is a challenge faced by the Chinese rice wine industry. Meanwhile, Chinese steamed buns prepared with CRWS are becoming increasingly popular, and CRWS has been used in the preparation of homemade Chinese steamed buns. However, the use of CRWS in the industrial production of Chinese steamed buns has not yet been developed. The productive use of CRWS could have substantial economic benefits. In this study, the effect of CRWS incorporation on Chinese steamed buns is reported for the first time. The results showed that CRWS improved the quality of Chinese steamed buns. The results of this study suggest a simple and convenient method for incorporating CRWS into the industrial production of northern-style Chinese steamed buns.
Influences of production circumstances on the economic revenue of cattle breeding programmes. The economic values of cattle production traits differ with different production circumstances. This sensitivity implies that (1) production circumstances influence the revenue of breeding programmes, and (2) losses in revenue of breeding programmes occur when circumstances used in defining breeding goals are incorrect with regard to actual production circumstances at the moments of expression of genetic superiorities. In this study, these effects are quantified for a set of genotype and index traits, including milk production traits, food intake capacity and live weight. Twenty-four situations of production circumstances were studied, including alternative output limitations, milk production levels, roughage qualities and product (milk, beef) and production-factor (food) prices. Results indicate that type of output limitation is the most important factor in determining revenue. Also, incorrect prediction of type of limitation leads to highest losses in revenue found (proportionately 0·01 to 0·06 of revenue). Losses in revenue due to incorrect prediction of production circumstances seem too low to justify complete diversification of cattle breeding goals within a breeding organization, except for different types of output limitations.
A study of diagnostic methods for Marteilioides chungmuensis infections in the Pacific oyster Crassostrea gigas. The eggs of the Pacific oyster, Crassostraea gigas, become infertile when infected by the parasite Marteilioides chungmuensis. Histologically, M. chungmuensis infects the oyster oocyte cytoplasm, and the ovaries take on a "lumpy" appearance once infected, which lowers commercial value of the oyster. This has a negative economic impact on oyster farms in South Korea and Japan. In this study, we compared traditional diagnostic methods (histology) with two molecular-based methods (polymerase chain reaction [PCR] amplification and in situ hybridization [ISH]) to identify M. chungmuensis-infected oysters. The efficacy of PCR and ISH to identify M. chungmuensis-infected oysters was compared to that of routine histology in 100 oysters. Thirty infections were identified using PCR and 16 using histology, whereas 31 infections were identified using ISH. The ISH and PCR assays were more sensitive compared to using histology with standard epidemiological methods. We strongly recommend that early parasitic invasion should be monitored with PCR/ISH methodologies as a basis for developing effective diagnostic techniques to identify M. chungmuensis-infected oysters.
Evaluation of breeding objectives for purebred and crossbred selection schemes for adoption in indigenous chicken breeding programmes. 1. The aim of the study was to evaluate the genetic and economic breeding objectives for an indigenous chicken (IC) breeding programme in Kenya.2. A closed three-tier nucleus breeding programme with three breeding objectives and two selection schemes was simulated. The breeding objectives included IC dual-purpose (ICD) for both eggs and meat, IC layer (ICL) for eggs and IC broiler (ICB) for meat production.3. Pure line selection scheme (PLS) for development of IC pure breeds and crossbreeding scheme (CBS) for the production of hybrids were considered. Two-and three-way crossbreeding strategies were evaluated under CBS and the impact of nucleus size on genetic gains and profitability of the breeding programme were investigated.4. Males were the main contributors to genetic gains. The highest genetic gains for egg number (2·71 eggs) and growth traits (1·74 g average daily gain and 57·96 g live weight at 16 weeks) were realised under PLS in ICL and ICB, respectively.5. The genetic response for age at first egg was desirable in all the breeding objectives, while that for fertility and hatchability were only favourable under ICL and PLS in ICD. Faecal egg count and immune antibody response had low, but positive gains except under PLS where the later was unfavourable. ICB was the most profitable breeding objective, followed by ICD and ICL under all the selection schemes.6. Although PLS was superior in genetic gains and profitability and recommended in breeding programmes targeting ICL and ICB, a three line CBS should be considered in development of a dual-purpose breed.7. Increasing the nucleus size beyond 5% of the IC population was not attractive as it resulted in declining profitability of the breeding programme.
Landscape genetics reveals unique and shared effects of urbanization for two sympatric pool-breeding amphibians. Metapopulation-structured species can be negatively affected when landscape fragmentation impairs connectivity. We investigated the effects of urbanization on genetic diversity and gene flow for two sympatric amphibian species, spotted salamanders (Ambystoma maculatum) and wood frogs (Lithobates sylvaticus), across a large (>35,000 km2) landscape in Maine, USA, containing numerous natural and anthropogenic gradients. Isolation-by-distance (IBD) patterns differed between the species. Spotted salamanders showed a linear and relatively high variance relationship between genetic and geographic distances (r =.057, p <.001), whereas wood frogs exhibited a strongly nonlinear and lower variance relationship (r = 0.429, p <.001). Scale dependence analysis of IBD found gene flow has its most predictable influence (strongest IBD correlations) at distances up to 9 km for spotted salamanders and up to 6 km for wood frogs. Estimated effective migration surfaces revealed contrasting patterns of high and low genetic diversity and gene flow between the two species. Population isolation, quantified as the mean IBD residuals for each population, was associated with local urbanization and less genetic diversity in both species. The influence of geographic proximity and urbanization on population connectivity was further supported by distance-based redundancy analysis and multiple matrix regression with randomization. Resistance surface modeling found interpopulation connectivity to be influenced by developed land cover, light roads, interstates, and topography for both species, plus secondary roads and rivers for wood frogs. Our results highlight the influence of anthropogenic landscape features within the context of natural features and broad spatial genetic patterns, in turn supporting the premise that while urbanization significantly restricts interpopulation connectivity for wood frogs and spotted salamanders, specific landscape elements have unique effects on these two sympatric species.
Versatile matrix for constructing enzyme-based biosensors. A versatile matrix was fabricated and utilized as a universal interface for the construction of enzyme-based biosensors. This matrix was formed on the gold electrode via combining self-assembled monolayer of 2,3-dimercaptosuccinic acid with gold nanoparticles. Gold nanoparticles were electrochemically deposited. Electrochemistry of three redox enzymes (catalase, glucose oxidase, and horseradish peroxidase) was investigated on such a matrix. The electrocatalytic monitoring of hydrogen peroxide and glucose was conducted on this matrix after being coated with those enzymes. On them the monitoring of hydrogen peroxide and glucose shows rapid response times, wide linear working ranges, low detection limits, and high enzymatic affinities. This matrix is thus a versatile and suitable platform to develop highly sensitive enzyme-based biosensors.
"the cancer bond": Exploring the formation of cancer risk perception in families with Lynch Syndrome. This study explores the social context of hereditary cancer risk perception in three families, an African-American family, a Mexican-American family, and a aucasian family, each with Lynch Syndrome documented by a mismatch repair gene mutation. Communication network assessments measured family communication about cancer experiences and genetic testing information among a total of 26 participants. Participant narratives were evaluated to gain insight into how family cancer experiences and genetic testing information have shaped perceptions of cancer risk. Analysis of communication networks indicated that some families discussed cancer experiences to a greater extent than genetic testing information, and vice-versa. Interviews elucidated that sharing both types of health information led participants to conceptualize linkages among a strong family history of cancer, genetic testing information, and cancer prevention strategies. Understanding how different types of family communication influence the formation of perceived hereditary disease risk may enhance efforts to tailor genetic counseling services for families.
Fusaric acid instigates the invasion of banana by Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. cubense TR4. Fusaric acid (FSA) is a phytotoxin produced by several Fusarium species and has been associated with plant disease development, although its role is still not well understood. Mutation of key genes in the FSA biosynthetic gene (FUB) cluster in Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. cubense tropical race 4 (Foc TR4) reduced the FSA production, and resulted in decreased disease symptoms and reduced fungal biomass in the host banana plants. When pretreated with FSA, both banana leaves and pseudostems exhibited increased sensitivity to Foc TR4 invasion. Banana embryogenic cell suspensions (ECSs) treated with FSA exhibited a lower rate of O2 uptake, loss of mitochondrial membrane potential, increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation, and greater nuclear condensation and cell death. Consistently, transcriptomic analysis of FSA-treated ECSs showed that FSA may induce plant cell death through regulating the expression of genes involved in mitochondrial functions. The results herein demonstrated that the FSA from Foc TR4 functions as a positive virulence factor and acts at the early stage of the disease development before the appearance of the fungal hyphae in the infected tissues.
Are you flirting with me? Autistic traits, theory of mind, and inappropriate courtship. Despite a strong potential for healthy sexual relationships, high functioning individuals with an autism spectrum disorder often struggle with the appropriateness of their courtship behaviours. Using Leslie's (1992) theory of mind (ToM) theory of autism, we investigated two mediators of the association between autistic traits and inappropriate courtship in a non-clinical sample: (1) ToM, and (2) a bias to perceive ambiguous social cues as flirting. University students (N = 195) completed an online battery containing the Autism Quotient (AQ), a measure of inappropriate courtship, a popular test of ToM (Eyes Test-Revised), a measure of flirt perception bias, and a question about singles’ venues attendance. AQ was indirectly associated with inappropriate courtship through two pathways: (1) a single-mediator model based on ToM; and (2) a two-mediator serial model with ToM leading to a flirtation perception bias, leading to more frequent inappropriate courtship. Adding flirtation perception and singles’ venues attendance to the ToM-mediation model increased the percent of variance accounted for from 17% to 25%, while each mediator remained statistically significant. Sex did not significantly moderate the models. To our knowledge, this is the first model accounting for courtship difficulties in persons with autistic traits. Limitations and applications are considered.
Iris yellow spot virus–induced chloroplast malformation results in male sterility. Iris yellow spot virus (IYSV) is one of the most devastating viral pathogens, which causes high economic losses in the onion yield. Physiological and genetic changes are associated with the appearance of chlorotic symptom in the infected plants. IYSV-N gene sequence analysis revealed that it shared sequence identity of 99% with other Egyptian isolates, at both genomic and proteomic levels. In addition, N protein sequence with computational examination indicated many motifs involved and played different roles in the virus activity and its regulation and stability were detected. In the Differential Display-Polymerase Chain Reaction (DD-PCR) study, a highly up-regulated gene at 15 days post-biological IYSV inoculation (dpi) was selected for sequencing. Based on the sequencing results that showed the identified gene was coding for a chloroplast-related gene, degenerate specific primers were designed for Real-Time PCR analysis. A significant change in the transcription level of the chloroplast-related gene after 15 dpi suggested that some IYSV proteins interact and/or regulate with chloroplast proteins and this finding supports the DD-PCR results. At 20 dpi, the ultrathin sections showed that IYSV infection caused many dramatic chloroplasts malformations. The malformation appeared as chloroplast broken envelope with the presence of numerous spherical particles inside it and chloroplasts with long stromule. Our findings indicated that IYSV interrupts normal chloroplast functions, as a part of the onion defence response, however many crucial factors remain to be elucidated and further studies are needed at both biological and molecular levels.
Immunohistochemical analysis of forensic evidence from a double homicide. We report the use of immunohistochemical staining for analysis of forensic evidence from a double homicide. A 38-year-old woman and her 7-year-old daughter were murdered by multiple blows to the head and face with a tomahawk, resulting in multiple fragments of brain tissue scattered about the murder scene. The victims' husband and father was the main suspect, who maintained that he was out of town on business during the evening of the murders. However, a shirt taken from the suspect's car on the morning after the murders (secured by the police before the suspect visited the murder scene) was found to have two small stains. DNA analysis on the stains showed the presence of the deceased wife's DNA, and immunohistochemical stains on shirt fragments conclusively documented the presence of deep central nervous system tissue, providing the critical piece of evidence needed to arrest and prosecute the suspect. This report demonstrates that shirt or similar cloth fragments can be processed into paraffin blocks and subsequently immunostained to search for and classify types of tissue fragments that may be present on the fabric.
Exploring genetic counseling communication patterns: The role of teaching and counseling approaches. The educational and counseling models are often touted as the two primary professional approaches to genetic counseling practice. Yet, research has not been conducted to examine how these approaches are used in practice. In the present study, we conducted quantitative communication analyses of BRCA1 genetic counseling sessions. We measured communication variables that represent content (e.g., a biomedical focus) and process (e.g., passive listening) to explore whether genetic counselor approaches are consistent with prevailing professional models. The Roter Interaction Analysis System (RIAS) was used to code 167 pre-test genetic counseling sessions of members of a large kindred with an identified BRCA1 mutation. Three experienced genetic counselors conducted the sessions. Creating composite categories from the RIAS codes, we found the sessions to be largely educational in nature with the counselors and clients devoting the majority of their dialogue to providing biomedical information (62 and 40%, respectively). We used cluster analytic techniques, entering the composite communication variables and identified four patterns of session communication: Client-focused psychosocial, biomedical question and answer, counselor-driven psychosocial, and client-focused biomedical. Moreover, we found that the counselors had unique styles in which they combined the use of education and counseling approaches. We discuss the importance of understanding the variation in counselor communication to advance the field and expand prevailing assumptions.
Ethical Challenges in Caring for Unrepresented Adults: A Qualitative Study of Key Stakeholders. The decision-making process on behalf of unrepresented adults (ie, those who lack capacity to make medical decisions and have no identifiable surrogate) is at risk for not incorporating their interests, raising ethical concerns. We performed semistructured interviews with key stakeholders across multiple sectors in an urban county who participate in the care of or decision-making process for unrepresented adults. This included a safety net healthcare system, social services, and legal services. Participants were healthcare, social service, and legal professionals who worked with unrepresented adults (n = 25). Our interview questions explored the current process for proxy decision making in cases of unrepresented adults and potential alternatives. We recorded, transcribed, and analyzed interviews using the constant comparative method to identify major themes related to ethical challenges if they were raised. Participants grappled with multiple ethical challenges around the care of unrepresented adults. Themes described by participants were: (1) prioritizing autonomy; (2) varying safety thresholds; (3) distributing resources fairly; and (4) taking a moral toll on stakeholders. In conclusion, all stakeholders identified ethical challenges in caring for unrepresented adults. An applied ethical framework that takes these dilemmas into account could improve ethical practice for unrepresented adults and lessen the emotional toll on stakeholders. J Am Geriatr Soc 67:1724–1729, 2019.
High genetic diversity at the inter-/intra-host level of Cherry leaf roll virus population associated with the birch leaf-roll disease in Fennoscandia. ABSTRACT: A viral epidemic associated with the Cherry leaf roll virus (CLRV) has emerged in Betula species in Fennoscandia, exhibiting quick and effective spread during the last 15 years. A population genetics approach is chosen in order to characterise the virus diversity and the sources of genetic variation aiming to investigate the epidemiology of the pathogen. In a CLRV population from Rovaniemi urban parks and a population that occurred after infecting young Betula seedlings with scions from the original Finnish trees, the genetic diversity is found to be remarkably high, mixed infections by CLRV variants from different phylogenetic groups are detected in single trees, while recombination is evidenced to occur. The estimated genetic variability is high and the CLRV haplotypes detected exhibit clear clustering and belong to different phylogenetic groups. The structure of the viral population reveals a pathogen with high evolutionary potential assumed to carry on its effective spread.
Culex pipiens s.l. and Culex torrentium (Culicidae) in Wrocław area (Poland): occurrence and breeding site preferences of mosquito vectors. Both ornithophilic mosquito species, Culex pipiens s.l. (L.) and Culex torrentium (Martini, 1925), occur sympatric in temperate Europe. They are presumed to be primary vectors of West Nile and Sindbis viruses. Differentiation of these morphologically similar Culex species is essential for evaluation of different vector roles, for mosquito surveillance and integrated control strategies. Cx. torrentium has been neglected or erroneously determined as Cx. pipiens s.l. in some previous studies, because only males of both species can be diagnosed reliably by morphology. Thus, knowledge about species abundance, geographical distribution, breeding site preferences and the zoonotic risk assessment is incomplete also in Poland. In Wrocław area (Silesian Lowland), besides typical urban breeding sites, huge sewage irrigation fields provide suitable breeding conditions for Culex species. They are also inhabited by 180 resident and migratory bird species serving as potential virus reservoirs. In this study, morphology of larvae and males as well as species diagnostic enzyme markers, namely adenylate kinase (AK) and 2-hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase (HBDH), were used to discriminate Cx. pipiens s.l. and Cx. torrentium. In a total of 650 Culex larvae from 24 natural and artificial breeding sites, Cx. pipiens s.l. had a proportion of 94.0 % and Cx. torrentium only 6.0 %. It could be shown that both species are well adapted to various breeding site types like ditches, catch basins, flower pots and buckets with diverse water quality. Cx. torrentium preferred more artificial water containers in urban surrounding (12 % species proportion), whereas in semi-natural breeding sites, Cx. torrentium was rare (3 %). In 12 of 24 breeding sites, larvae of both species have been found associated.
Outreach and support in South-London (OASIS) 2001—2020: Twenty years of early detection, prognosis and preventive care for young people at risk of psychosis. This study aims to describe twenty years of early detection, prognosis and preventive care in the Outreach and Support In South-London (OASIS) mental health service for individuals at Clinical High risk of psychosis (CHR-P). The study presents a comprehensive analysis of the 2001– 2020 activity of the OASIS team encompassing core domains: (i) service characteristics, (ii) detection, (iii) prognosis, (iv) treatment and (v) clinical research. The analyses employed descriptive statistics, population-level data, the epidemiological incidence of psychosis, Kaplan Meier failure functions and Greenwood 95% CIs and Electronic Health Records. OASIS is part of the South London and Maudsley (SLaM) NHS trust, the largest European mental health provider, serving a total urban population of 1,358,646 individuals (population aged 16-35: 454,525). Incidence of psychosis in OASIS's catchment area ranges from 58.3 to 71.9 cases per 100,000 person-years, and it is higher than the national average of 41.5 cases per 100,000 person-year. OASIS is a standalone, NHS-funded, multidisciplinary (team leader, consultant and junior psychiatrists, clinical psychologists, mental health professionals), transitional (for those aged 14-35 years) community mental health service with a yearly caseload of 140 CHR-P individuals. OASIS regularly delivers a comprehensive service promotion outreach to several local community organisations. Referrals to OASIS (2366) are made by numerous agencies; about one-third of the referrals eventually met CHR-P criteria. Overall, 600 CHR-P individuals (55.33% males, mean age 22.63 years, white ethnicity 46.44%) have been under the care of the OASIS service: 80.43% met attenuated psychotic symptoms, 18.06% brief and limited intermittent psychotic symptoms and 1.51% genetic risk and deterioration CHR-P criteria. All CHR-P individuals were offered cognitive behavioural therapy and psychosocial support; medications were used depending on individual needs. The cumulative risk of psychosis at ten years was 0.365 (95%CI 0.302-0.437). At six years follow-up, across two-third of individuals non-transitioning to psychosis, 79.24% still displayed some mental health problem, and only 20.75% achieved a complete clinical remission. Research conducted at OASIS encompassed clinical, prognostic, neurobiological and interventional studies and leveraged local, national and international infrastructures; over the past ten years, OASIS-related research attracted about £ 50 million of grant income, with 5,922 citations in the international databases. Future developments may include broadening OASIS to prevent other serious mental disorders beyond psychosis and fostering translational risk prediction and interventional research. With a twenty-years activity, OASIS’ cutting-edge quality of preventive care, combined with translational research innovations, consolidated the service as a leading reference model for evidence-based prevention of psychosis worldwide.
Economic values for traits of indigenous sheep managed under a low-input production system in north-western highlands of Ethiopia: input to design of breeding programmes. A bioeconomic model based on a deterministic simulation was applied to estimate economic values (EVs) of different traits in indigenous sheep native to the north-western highlands of Ethiopia. Data collected on 4318 sheep were used to describe biological parameters of the model, while economic variables were surveyed in the market. In the studied production system, feed accounted for 74% of the total variable costs, while the sale of live sheep contributed to 88% of the total revenue. Profit was calculated as the difference between revenues and costs of the production variables, which were subsequently used to derive EVs. For each trait its EV was estimated after a unit change in its mean value, keeping the other traits unchanged. After a unit genetic change, the EVs (per ewe per year) for weight at weaning, six months of age, in yearlings and mature ewes were US$ 1.46, 0.60,-0.04 and-0.24, respectively. Besides, the EVs for the number of lambs weaned per ewe bred, ewe fertility rate, lambing interval, post-weaning and mature ewe survivals were US$ 0.59, 0.37, 0.16, 0.53 and 0.86, in the order given. The analysis of sensitivity of EVs to fluctuations in the price of input and output parameters revealed that the marginal change in profit was more affected in most traits when the price of live weight was altered rather than feed cost. Overall, the results of the present study imply that profitability of sheep production in the low-input production system can be enhanced by implementing selection on traits that have high economic importance.
Economic decision-making bi-level programming model for urban passenger transportation operators. To analyze the law of passenger transportation economic policy in different operators, based on game theory to describe the Nash equilibrium among urban passenger transportation operators, a bi-level programming model is proposed to model urban passenger transportation operators' economic decision-making, operators' profit and social cost have been discussed, including the travel time cost, air pollution cost and energy consumption cost. The upper-level model describes the management authority' regulation on the fares of each mode, the lower-level model describes the operators' maximum profit by determining the service frequency. Based on GAMS and genetic algorithm, a numerical example verifies the validity of the proposed model. The introduction of subway service will increase the total market share of passenger public transportation, and effectively reduce the external cost, including the environmental emission cost and energy consumption cost.
Components of resistance of conilon coffee that reduce the rate of leaf rust development. This study aimed to quantify the levels of resistance of 39 hybrids “Clone 83 × Clone 02”of Coffea canephora var. conilon to the races II (v5) and XXXIII (v5,7,9) of H. vastatrix. To study the resistance of the genotypes, leaf discs were removed from the plants and spreaded on the top of a stainless steel screen inside gerbox as a moist chamber. The gerboxes were mantained at 22 ± 2 °C in the dark for 48 h and under 12 h of photoperiod, respectively. The hybrids were classified into four levels: resistant (R), moderately resistant (MR), moderately susceptible (MS) and susceptible (S). Leaf discs (%) containing sporulated lesions was the resistance component that had the greatest absolute correlation (0.95). The level of resistance of the hybrids varyied according to the race of the pathogen. The percentage of R, MR, MS and S of the hybrids to race II and XXXIII were 25 %, 25 %, 38 %, and 11 %, and 13 %, 37 %, 42 %, and 8 %, respectively. Nine (25 %) and five (13 %) hybrids were R to race II and XXXIII, respectively. Four hybrids (21, 30, 48 and 66) showed vertical resistance to races II and XXXIII. Possibly these hybrids have the resistance factor SH6, because they were resistant to race XXXIII v5,7,9. Leaf discs (%) with sporulating lesions can be used as a reference in future studyies of screening genotypes with horizontal resistance to C. canephora genotypes to leaf rust.
Resistance to a DNA and a RNA virus in transgenic plants by using a single chimeric transgene construct. Tomato leaf curl Taiwan virus (ToLCTWV) and Tomato spotted wilt virus (TSWV) are two major tomato viruses that cause serious economic losses. In this study, a partial C2 gene from ToLCTWV and the middle half of the N gene of TSWV were fused as a chimeric transgene to develop multiple virus resistance in transgenic plants. This construct was introduced into Nicotiana benthamiana and tomato by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Several transgenic lines showed no symptom post agro-inoculation with ToLCTWV and displayed high resistance to TSWV. The detection of siRNAs indicated that the resistance was via RNA silencing. This study demonstrated that linkage of gene segments from two viruses with distinct genomic organization, one DNA and the other RNA, can confer multiple virus resistance in transgenic plants via gene silencing.
Phenological patterns in a natural population of a tropical timber tree species, Milicia excelsa (Moraceae): Evidence of isolation by time and its interaction with feeding strategies of dispersers. • Premise of the study: Population genetic structuring over limited timescales is commonly viewed as a consequence of spatial constraints. Indirect approaches have recently revealed reproductive isolation resulting from flowering time (so-called isolation by time, IBT). Since phenological processes can be subject to selection, the persistence of flowering asynchrony may be due to opposing selective pressures during mating, dispersal, and regeneration phases. Our study aimed to investigate phenology, fruit handling by animals, and their interaction in a timber tree species, Milicia excelsa. • Methods: We analyzed phenological data collected over 6 years on 69 genotyped trees in a Cameroonian natural rainforest complemented by data from germination trials and field observations of dispersers. • Key results: Initiation of flowering was correlated with variation in temperature and relative humidity, but was also affected by genetic factors: pairwise differences in flowering time between nearby individuals correlated with kinship coefficient, and earliness of flowering remained stable over time. A decrease in mean seed production per fruit with increasing flowering time suggests selection against late bloomers. However, germination rate was not affected by seed collection date, and the main seed disperser, the bat Eidolon helvum, seemed to increase in abundance at the end of the reproductive season and preferred trees in open habitats where early and late bloomers are expected. • Conclusions: The pairwise approach performs well in detecting IBT. The persistence of different mating pools in such a case may result from a trade offbetween selective forces during the mating and seed dispersal processes.
Scheduling optimization of tramp shipping based on temporal and spatial attributes of shipping demand. The shippers' choice behaviors and the temporal and spatial distribution characteristics of shipping demand were considered, the carrier's ship operation period was divided into multiple continuous time windows, the selection inertia of the shipper was transformed into the potential market shares of the carriers on the shipping segment based on the discrete selection model, and the freight volumes of the carriers in the spot market in different time windows were optimized. An optimization model was built with the maximum profits of the carriers as the objective, and the shipping scheduling scheme was solved during the planning period, so as to determine the shipping cargo and voyage connection. Seven countries in the Pacific region, including China, Canada, Australia, Russia, Indonesia, Brazil, and America, were selected as the main importers and exporters of dry bulk cargoes, and one port of each country was selected as the node of transport network. According to the data published by Clarkson's official website, such as the routes, freight rates, and demand of dry bulk cargoes, the optimal scheduling of tramp ships be obtained by the genetic algorithm. Computation result shows that in the same shipping time window, the sailing time and profit of the ship are 58 days and 3.01×105 USD under the optimal scheduling scheme, respectively. While, in the traditional scheduling scheme maximizing the profit on each segment, the sailing time and profit of the ship are 56 days and 2.48×105 USD, respectively, and the profit is 5.30×104 USD lower than the profit under the optimal scheduling scheme. Therefore, in order to maximize the profit in the shipping period, under the influence of the temporal and spatial change of freight demand and the inertia of shipper choice, the ship should carry out the voyage without profit or with low profit in some time windows.
Clean room microbiome complexity impacts planetary protection bioburden. Background: The Spacecraft Assembly Facility (SAF) at the NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory is the primary cleanroom facility used in the construction of some of the planetary protection (PP)-sensitive missions developed by NASA, including the Mars 2020 Perseverance Rover that launched in July 2020. SAF floor samples (n=98) were collected, over a 6-month period in 2016 prior to the construction of the Mars rover subsystems, to better understand the temporal and spatial distribution of bacterial populations (total, viable, cultivable, and spore) in this unique cleanroom. Results: Cleanroom samples were examined for total (living and dead) and viable (living only) microbial populations using molecular approaches and cultured isolates employing the traditional NASA standard spore assay (NSA), which predominantly isolated spores. The 130 NSA isolates were represented by 16 bacterial genera, of which 97% were identified as spore-formers via Sanger sequencing. The most spatially abundant isolate was Bacillus subtilis, and the most temporally abundant spore-former was Virgibacillus panthothenticus. The 16S rRNA gene-targeted amplicon sequencing detected 51 additional genera not found in the NSA method. The amplicon sequencing of the samples treated with propidium monoazide (PMA), which would differentiate between viable and dead organisms, revealed a total of 54 genera: 46 viable non-spore forming genera and 8 viable spore forming genera in these samples. The microbial diversity generated by the amplicon sequencing corresponded to ~86% non-spore-formers and ~14% spore-formers. The most common spatially distributed genera were Sphinigobium, Geobacillus, and Bacillus whereas temporally distributed common genera were Acinetobacter, Geobacilllus, and Bacillus. Single-cell genomics detected 6 genera in the sample analyzed, with the most prominent being Acinetobacter. Conclusion: This study clearly established that detecting spores via NSA does not provide a complete assessment for the cleanliness of spacecraft-associated environments since it failed to detect several PP-relevant genera that were only recovered via molecular methods. This highlights the importance of a methodological paradigm shift to appropriately monitor bioburden in cleanrooms for not only the aeronautical industry but also for pharmaceutical, medical industries, etc., and the need to employ molecular sequencing to complement traditional culture-based assays. [MediaObject not available: see fulltext.]
Cutting the Gordian knot: Taking a stab at corky root rot of tomato. Corky root rot (CRR) is an escalating plant disease of tomato (Solanum esculentum), caused by a soil-borne fungus, Pyrenochaeta lycopersici. During the last two decades there have almost been no progress in the understanding of the molecular mechanisms promoting infection and plant susceptibility. As there are no CRR-resistant lines of cultivated tomato on the market and no other known means for plant protection, a deeper molecular knowledge about the infection process is urgently needed. We have therefore outlined an efficient strategy to search for corky root rot-resistance genes in wild tomato. In addition, we are investigating the genetic determinants for infection and virulence of the fungal pathogen, P. lycopersici. In this review we summarize the quite limited molecular knowledge about the pathogen and the disease, and discuss the possibilities to overcome previous technical obstacles in this new era of molecular biology.
Assessment of Appropriate Reference Genes for Quantitative Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction Normalisation in Magnolia sieboldii K. Koch across Various Experimental Conditions. Magnolia sieboldii K. Koch is a famous ornamental plant. The deep dormancy of the seeds makes breeding difficult and prevents cultivation for economic purposes. Gene expression profiles of germination-related genes can provide clues for understanding the molecular mechanism of dormancy breaking. The accuracy of results acquired through quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), which was developed for investigating the gene expression profiles, is determined by the suitability of the selected reference gene. Nevertheless, appropriate RT-qPCR reference genes have not been determined in M. sieboldii. In the present study, seven potential reference genes in diverse M. sieboldii sample subgroups of different organ tissues, seed developmental stages, and seed subjected to imbibition and stratification treatments were checked through RT-qPCR. The gene expression stability was assessed and analysed through three statistical algorithms, namely, geNorm, NormFinder, and BestKeeper. Cyclophilin (CYC) and ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme (UCE) were identified as the best reference genes for diverse organs. CYC and UCE were evaluated as suitable reference genes in seeds in diverse periods of development. Copper/zinc superoxide dismutase (Cu/Zn-SOD) and manganese superoxide dismutase (Mn-SOD) served as optimal reference genes during seed imbibition treatment, whereas Cu/Zn-SOD and 30S ribosomal protein S13 (RPS13) were optimal during seed stratification treatment. In M. sieboldii, Cu/Zn-SOD was recommended for RT-qPCR normalisation, whereas DBP was inappropriate for gene expression analysis. The expression pattern of DELAY OF GERMINATION1 (DOG1) was analysed for validating reference gene creditability better. The present study provides a useful guideline for appropriate reference gene selection for RT-qPCR at diverse experiment conditions for M. sieboldii.
Begin at the beginning: A BAC-end view of the passion fruit (Passiflora) genome. Background: The passion fruit (Passiflora edulis) is a tropical crop of economic importance both for juice production and consumption as fresh fruit. The juice is also used in concentrate blends that are consumed worldwide. However, very little is known about the genome of the species. Therefore, improving our understanding of passion fruit genomics is essential and to some degree a pre-requisite if its genetic resources are to be used more efficiently. In this study, we have constructed a large-insert BAC library and provided the first view on the structure and content of the passion fruit genome, using BAC-end sequence (BES) data as a major resource.Results: The library consisted of 82,944 clones and its levels of organellar DNA were very low. The library represents six haploid genome equivalents, and the average insert size was 108 kb. To check its utility for gene isolation, successful macroarray screening experiments were carried out with probes complementary to eight Passiflora gene sequences available in public databases. BACs harbouring those genes were used in fluorescent in situ hybridizations and unique signals were detected for four BACs in three chromosomes (n = 9). Then, we explored 10,000 BES and we identified reads likely to contain repetitive mobile elements (19.6% of all BES), simple sequence repeats and putative proteins, and to estimate the GC content (~42%) of the reads. Around 9.6% of all BES were found to have high levels of similarity to plant genes and ontological terms were assigned to more than half of the sequences analysed (940). The vast majority of the top-hits made by our sequences were to Populus trichocarpa (24.8% of the total occurrences), Theobroma cacao (21.6%), Ricinus communis (14.3%), Vitis vinifera (6.5%) and Prunus persica (3.8%).Conclusions: We generated the first large-insert library for a member of Passifloraceae. This BAC library provides a new resource for genetic and genomic studies, as well as it represents a valuable tool for future whole genome study. Remarkably, a number of BAC-end pair sequences could be mapped to intervals of the sequenced Arabidopsis thaliana, V. vinifera and P. trichocarpa chromosomes, and putative collinear microsyntenic regions were identified.
Hybrid NSGA-II Algorithm on multi-objective inventory management problem. Inventory management is a key issue in supply chain management. Under the circumstances that there are plenty of risks, it is more usable and appropriate if the risk problem is also taken into consideration when addressing the issue of inventory management. In this paper, we firstly introduces the classifications of inventory model, introduces two parameters, VaR and CVaR to measure risks. Also, we established a bi-objective model considering inventory cost and CVaR at the same time. Heuristic method to solve the problem is addressed then. We examined the application of Genetic Algorithm on multi-objective problems, i.e. the NSGA-II algorithm. We proposed an analytic method to simplify the solution of the problem. Besides, we examined the local search method based on the problem and proposed a Hybrid Genetic Algorithm. Simulation verifies the usability of our model and the efficiency of our algorithm.
Damasio’s mistake. Somatic marker application to political decision making. The growing importance that the study of emotions has acquired, with contributions from biology, neurology and even genetics, seems to have solved for some the traditional conflict with reason in favor of the emotions. The theory of the neurobi-ologist Antonio Damasio’s somatic marker has become one of the most relevant in this revitalization of the role of emotions. The theory establishes the existence of an internal system of preferences in the human being that offers a guide about which actions are best suited to been applied to political decision making. However, if it is possible to affirm that politics must consist of something other than rational mastery over passions, an aporia will arise since politics itself will be denied. The present paper shows that the emphasis on the emotional side of the human being is a new version of the old idea that sees politics as a reflection of evil and that considers the political activity as necessary insofar as evil exists. The stress on emotions, therefore, seems doomed to eliminate the politics.
Connectivity and stock composition of loggerhead turtles foraging on the North African continental shelf (Central Mediterranean): implications for conservation and management. The loggerhead turtle, Caretta caretta, is a highly migratory species with a complex life cycle that involves a series of ontogenetic habitat shifts and migrations. Understanding the links amongst nesting populations and foraging habitats is essential for the effective management of the species. Here we used mixed stock analysis to examine the natal origin of loggerhead turtles foraging on the North African continental shelf off Tunisia, one of the most important Mediterranean neritic habitats. An 815-bp fragment of the mitochondrial DNA control region was sequenced from 107 individuals sampled from 2007 to 2009. No temporal variation in haplotype frequencies was detected. Juveniles (n = 87) and adults (n = 23) exhibited weak but significant genetic differentiation that resulted in different stock compositions. Libya was the main source population but the proportion of turtles from this rookery was higher in adults (median = 80%) than in juveniles (median = 35%). Western Greece was the second most important contributing population. Juvenile stock composition derived from mixed stock analysis and the estimates produced by numerical simulation of hatchling dispersion in the Mediterranean Sea were significantly correlated, supporting the recent theory that loggerheads imprint on possible future neritic habitats during the initial phase of their life. This association was not significant for adults, suggesting that other factors contribute to shaping their distribution. Overall, our results show that human activities on the South Tunisian continental shelf pose an immediate threat to the survival of the Libyan rookery.
Enhanced energy transport in genetically engineered excitonic networks. One of the challenges for achieving efficient exciton transport in solar energy conversion systems is precise structural control of the light-harvesting building blocks. Here, we create a tunable material consisting of a connected chromophore network on an ordered biological virus template. Using genetic engineering, we establish a link between the inter-chromophoric distances and emerging transport properties. The combination of spectroscopy measurements and dynamic modelling enables us to elucidate quantum coherent and classical incoherent energy transport at room temperature. Through genetic modifications, we obtain a significant enhancement of exciton diffusion length of about 68% in an intermediate quantum-classical regime.
Using failure mode and effects analysis (FMEA) to generate an initial plan check checklist for improved safety in radiation treatment. Purpose: To apply failure mode and effect analysis (FMEA) to generate an effective and efficient initial physics plan checklist. Methods: A team of physicists, dosimetrists, and therapists was setup to reconstruct the workflow processes involved in the generation of a treatment plan beginning from simulation. The team then identified possible failure modes in each of the processes. For each failure mode, the severity (S), frequency of occurrence (O), and the probability of detection (D) was assigned a value and the risk priority number (RPN) was calculated. The values assigned were based on TG 100. Prior to assigning a value, the team discussed the values in the scoring system to minimize randomness in scoring. A local database of errors was used to help guide the scoring of frequency. Results: Twenty-seven process steps and 50 possible failure modes were identified starting from simulation to the final approved plan ready for treatment at the machine. Any failure mode that scored an average RPN value of 20 or greater was deemed “eligible” to be placed on the second checklist. In addition, any failure mode with a severity score value of 4 or greater was also considered for inclusion in the checklist. As a by-product of this procedure, safety improvement methods such as automation and standardization of certain processes (e.g., dose constraint checking, check tools), removal of manual transcription of treatment-related information as well as staff education were implemented, although this was not the team's original objective. Prior to the implementation of the new FMEA-based checklist, an in-service for all the second checkers was organized to ensure further standardization of the process. Conclusion: The FMEA proved to be a valuable tool for identifying vulnerabilities in our workflow and processes in generating a treatment plan and subsequently a new, more effective initial plan checklist was created.
Simultaneous optimization of artificial neural networks for financial forecasting. Artificial neural networks (ANNs) have been popularly applied for stock market prediction, since they offer superlative learning ability. However, they often result in inconsistent and unpredictable performance in the prediction of noisy financial data due to the problems of determining factors involved in design. Prior studies have suggested genetic algorithm (GA) to mitigate the problems, but most of them are designed to optimize only one or two architectural factors of ANN. With this background, the paper presents a global optimization approach of ANN to predict the stock price index. In this study, GA optimizes multiple architectural factors and feature transformations of ANN to relieve the limitations of the conventional backpropagation algorithm synergistically. Experiments show our proposed model outperforms conventional approaches in the prediction of the stock price index.
An update on recurrent early pregnancy loss: Causes, controversies and cure. Recurrent Pregnancy Loss (RPL) is an important reproductive issue, affecting 1-5% of couples. It is characterised by repeated miscarriage, impairing the ability to have a live birth. The proven causes are diverse, such as cytogenetic abnormality, uterine anomalies, antiphospholipid antibody, metabolic and endocrine abnormalities, and about 50% cases of RPL remain still unexplained. To facilitate the diagnosis, different screening tests have been recommended, such as antiphospholipid antibody tests, thyroid stimulating hormone, glucose tolerance test, chromosomal assessment, ultrasound testing etc. RPL is associated with psychological trauma and financial burden. An evidence-based treatment is available for the majority of causes and it is seen that most of the women eventually become pregnant with an appropriate treatment plan, regardless of the cause. It has also been shown that patients presenting no abnormality on various tests may achieve a good rate of live births without special treatment. This study also includes certain controversial aetiologies and unconventional tests. This review touches on the management of various abnormalities in brief. Recurrent pregnancy loss has a significant negative life impact due to its repetitive nature; however, emotional care along with appropriate management improves chances of future pregnancy.
Bell, Merton and Mills as Veblen Critics: A Comment. Abstract. Professors Tilman and Simich offer some thought provoking and reasoned criticisms of the analysis and applications of Veblen's social theory by Bell, Merton and Mills. However, while Tilman and Simich identify some key concepts and ideas central to Veblen's social theory development, they fail to articulate the inner logic of Veblen's paradigm which integrates and amplifies the individual concepts and ideas: the genetic, evolutionary development of the life process. Veblen's evolutionary paradigm not only challenges but threatens the very legitimacy of much of orthodox analysis in such disciplines as sociology, economics and political science.
Urbanization and the common wall lizard (Podarcis muralis) in the Pannonian basin, Serbia: nowhere safe?. Numerous studies of urban environment impact on wildlife imply urbanization can have both negative and positive effects. Phenotypic variation of pileus in the common wall lizard (Podarcis muralis) was analysed to determine whether urbanization levels can be associated with developmental instability induced by environmental stress. Pileus developmental pathways and instability in natural, suburban and urban populations were quantified by patterns of size and shape, fluctuating asymmetry (FA), modular organization and integration, allometric trajectories and frequency of phenodeviants. Our results show high asymmetry and modular structure of pileus with the high frequency of phenodeviants for natural, suburban and urban populations indicating elevated developmental instability in all three habitat types. However, some peculiarities were observed comparing habitats – the lowest level of FA and integration in urban populations and unexpectedly high level of FA and frequency of phenodeviants in the natural population. In addition, significant correlations between symmetric and asymmetric shape patterns, and presence of modular organization for all three habitat types suggest that genetic/environmental and developmental parcellation are somewhat aligned. Our results indicate that pileus morphology varies in a complex manner and future studies that link physiological, behavioural and morphological parameters to demographic parameters and fitness are necessary to fully understand how environmental stress affects developmental instability.
Wheat cultivars resistant to puccinia graminis tritici in western canada: Their development, performance, and economic value. The estimated present annual value of wheat stem rust resistance in the rust area of western Canada is $217 million. The history of stem rust control in western Canada is divided into three periods: (1) prior to 1935 when susceptible cultivars were grown; (2) from 1936 to 1949 when cultivars with resistance from durum wheat and Yaroslav emmer were grown: And (3) from 1950 to the present when cultivars with the two former types of resistance became susceptible to rust race 15 B and were replaced by cultivars that are still resistant. A "permanent" rust nursery has been grown at Winnipeg. Manitoba, each year since 1952. The reaction of some cultivars has changed as rust races changed but others have been resistant since first grown in the nursery. The cultivars with enduring resistance have more genes for resistance and different gene combinations than the cultivars that became susceptible. Their resistance is genetically and physiologically complex. Methods for producing commercial cultivars with "complex" enduring resistance are described.
Environmental risk and the precautionary principle: "Late lessons from early warnings" applied to genetically modified plants. The environmental risk associated with genetically modified organisms (GMO) implies that new approaches to risk assessment, risk management and risk communication are needed. In this paper we discuss the role of the precautionary principle in policy responses to GMO risk. We first discuss application of the criteria in the European Environment Agency report " Late lessons from early warnings: The precautionary principle 1896-2000" to environmental GMO risk, with focus on crop plants. Moreover, we discuss Bayesian analysis in the context of improving the informational basis for decision-making under uncertainty. Finally, environmental uncertainties are intertwined with economic uncertainties. Providing incentives for improved risk assessment, risk management and risk communication is crucial for enhancing environmental and social responsibility and thereby facilitate implementation of precautionary approaches. We discuss environmental and social screening of companies as an example of how such incentives can be provided.
Perceptions on good-life, good-death, and advance care planning in Koreans with non-cancerous chronic diseases. Aims: This study explored perceptions on a good-life, good-death, and advance care planning in Koreans with non-cancerous chronic diseases with the goal to develop a culture-specific advance care planning intervention in this population. Design: A qualitative descriptive design was used. Methods: Data collections were conducted between September 2017 – June 2018. Twenty-nine patients aged 41–82 years (85.8% men) participated in the interviews lasting 40–60 min. The verbatim transcriptions of the semi-structured interview data were analysed using conventional content analysis. Results: Good-life was described as ‘present with physical and financial independence,’ ‘not burdensome to the family,’ ‘completed life responsibility’, and ‘helping others.’ Some participants described good-death as ‘prepared death’ while others considered it as ‘sudden death during sleep.’ All participants wanted to have a painless death and not burden the family. Advance care planning was a new concept to many participants. It was likened to ‘insurance.’ Some participants believed that decision-making on life-sustaining treatment should be done by their family, not themselves, because of economic or emotional distress. Some participants wanted to discuss medical and non-medical care services to reduce the burden on self and family. Conclusion: Family is key when it comes to the meaning of good-life and good-death. Cultural adaptation is necessary to meet the advance care planning needs of Koreans with non-cancerous chronic diseases. Impact: Successfully implementing advance care planning in Koreans with non-cancerous chronic diseases depends on how it is adapted to the disease-specific characteristics compared with cancer, and the cultural norms and social context. Nurses need to be prepared to offer advance care planning to persons with non-cancerous chronic diseases based on a keen sense of and empathetic cultural competence.
Sheep production and breeding in the Mediterranean basin: strategies for the future. Sheep production in general, and dairy sheep breeding in particular, constitutes a major economic activity in the Mediterranean basin, since sheep are well adapted to the optimal use of marginal areas and poor grazing conditions. A gradual degradation of the mountainous and hilly grazelands of the region has taken place, as a result of the overgrazing of some areas and/or undergrazing of others. This is not only due to the application of bad management techniques, but also to the depopulation of the more environmentally difficult rural regions accompanying industrial development and a growing tendency toward uncontrolled urbanization of farmland. Through the combination of the locally available genetic resources, a considerable increase in productivity, without great losses in adaptability, can be achieved. While, in the past, sheep production was originally considered a traditional rural activity, numerous investments were made in recent years - particularly in the dairy sheep industry - and major scientific and technical efforts were undertaken in countries where it became essential to modernize the main agricultural activities.
Botanical imperialism: The Stewardship of Plant Genetic Resources in the Third World. This paper explores the social history of plant use from early European expansion to the present. The concept of “Botanical Imperialism“ is used to link issues of ecology and development. Specifically, it addresses the appropriation, control, and economic use of plant cultigens in the context of the capitalist world system. Notions of colonial stewardship and Western property rights are analyzed as the ideological underpinnings of Botanical Imperialism. The paper then examines the relationship between the political economy, modern agronomy, and the development of hybrids by petrochemical monopolies, and the implications of these for issues of overproduction, underdevelopment, species extinction, and global environmental destruction.
Nurse managers: Determinants and behaviours in relation to patient and visitor aggression in general hospitals. A qualitative study. Aim(s): To explore nurse managers’ behaviours, attitudes, perceived social norms, and behavioural control in the prevention and management of patient and visitor aggression in general hospitals. Background: Patient and visitor aggression in general hospitals is a global problem that incurs substantial human suffering and organizational cost. Managers are key persons for creating low-aggression environments, yet their role and behaviours in reducing patient and visitor aggression remains unexplored. Design: A qualitative descriptive study underpinned by the Reasoned Action Approach. Method(s): Between October 2015–January 2016, we conducted five focus groups and 13 individual interviews with nurse leaders in Switzerland. The semi-structured interviews and focus groups were recorded, transcribed, and analysed in a qualitative content analysis. Findings: We identified three main themes: (i) Background factors: “Patient and visitor aggression is perceived through different lenses”; (ii) Determinants and intention: “Good intentions competing with harsh organizational reality”; (iii) Behaviours: “Preventing and managing aggressive behaviour and relentlessly striving to create low-aggression work environments”. Conclusion(s): Addressing patient and visitor aggression is difficult for nurse managers due to a lack of effective communication, organizational feedback loops, protocols, and procedures that connect the situational and organizational management of aggressive incidents. Furthermore, tackling aggression at an organizational level is a major challenge for nurse managers due to scant financial resources and lack of interest. Treating patient and visitor aggression as a business case may increase organizational awareness and interest. Furthermore, clear communication of expectations, needs and resources could optimize support provision for staff.
productivity and economics of soybean (Glycine Max) as influenced by weed management practices under rainfed situations of South-Eastern Rajasthan. A field experiment was conducted during rainy seasons of 2008 and 2009 on clay loam soil of Bundi to evaluate performance of soybean genotypes. Two hand-weeding at 20 and 35 DAS recorded significantly higher filled pods/ plant(41.90), seeds/pod(3.33),seed index(12.20 g), seed yield(14.85 q/ ha) and return(Rs 24,460 /ha ) over farmer's practice followed by 1 kulpa at 20 DAS + 1 HW at 35 DAS and application of Imazethapyr 75 g / ha at 15 DAS + 1HW at 35 DAS. The highest benefit: cost ratio (1.72) was obtained with 1 kulpa at 20 DAS+ 1HW at 35 DAS. Significantly lower weed density (40.70/m2), weed dry weight (366.30 kg/ha) at harvest and highest weed control efficiency (56.78%) were obtained with use of Imazethapyr 75 g / ha at15 DAS + 1HW at 35 DAS over rest of treatment. Among soybean genotype, JS-95-60 significantly gave higher seeds/pod (3.38), 100-seed weight (13.25 g), seed yield (15.90 q/ha), return (Rs 26,140 /ha) and B: c ratio (2.12) over farmer's practice and was on par with JS-93-05. Hence, it is concluded that soybean genotype JS-95-60 with use of either one kulpa at 20 DAS+ 1HW at 35 DAS or two HW at 20 and 35 DAS provide higher yield and benefit under rainfed situations.
Contribution to the management and conservation of gametes of the turbot Scophthalmus maximus (Linnaeus, 1758). The turbot Scophthalmus maximus (Linnaeus, 1758) farming industry demands greater control over fish reproduction and genetic management in order to raise production levels. In reproductive management, there is a huge variation in fertility rates, which could be due to the quality of the gametes or the different fertilization methods currently in use. Moreover, the improvement of the species requires methods able to prolong the viability of high-quality gametes. Given this scenario, in the area of aquaculture, the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea (ICES), and the priority guidelines of the Framework Programme recommend studies on gamete quality, optimization of methods, and the development of techniques which would make it possible to prolong the viability of high-quality gametes over time. Following these priorities, the aim of this thesis has been to optimise reproductive stock management in turbot farming, in order to determine the most appropriate method for artificial fertilization and short- and long-term conservation of gametes, with the aim of obtaining maximum productivity in industrial settings. Furthermore, an assessment was made of the growth of larvae and fry produced with conserved gametes, in order to confirm the feasibility of these techniques in the turbot farming industry.
Quantification of laser local hyperthermia induced by gold plasmonic nanoparticles. This paper discusses one of the key problems of laser-induced tissue/cell hyperthermia mediated by gold nanoparticles, namely, quantifying and precise prediction of the light exposure to provide a controllable local heating impact on living organisms. The distributions of such parameters as an efficiency factor of absorption, differential and integral absorbing power of a nanoparticle, temperature increment, and Arrhenius damage integral were used to quantify nanoparticle effectiveness in the two-dimensional coordinate space "laser wavelength ? × radius of gold nanoparticles R." It was found that the fulfillment of required spatial and temporal characteristics of temperature fields in the vicinity of nanoparticle determines the optimal ? and R. As a result, the area in the space (? × R) with a minimal criticality to alterations of the local hyperthermia may be significantly displaced from the position of the plasmonic resonance. The aspects of generalization of the proposed methodology for the analysis of local hyperthermia using nanoparticles of different shapes (nanoshells, nanorods, nanostars) and short pulse laser radiation are discussed.
An efficient reliability index for the assessment of energy efficiency considering sitting of green virtual resources in a microgrid. Energy efficiency program (EEP) is one of the demand-side management programs that can solve the demand-side and network-side problems. In this paper, a new concept of energy efficiency (EE) on the microgrid considering economic and technical impacts is introduced. The impacts of EE are considered on sitting of green virtual resources such as EEP as well as wind and solar power plants. The EE consists of two terms, economic and technical terms that are introduced in this paper. New indexes such as the efficient reliability index (ERI) are introduced to evaluate the EE. The presented model is implemented on the IEEE standard 33-bus test system. The model of the problem is the mixed integer non-linear programming (MINLP) and the problem is solved by the genetic algorithm in the MATLAB software. The results show the effectiveness of the proposed method and the presented model.
Evaluation of genetic stability and effects of plant growth regulators for in vitro propagation of underutilized Vitis amurensis 'Cheongsan'. Vitis amurensis 'Cheongsan' is a plant with high economic value in both medical and agricultural applications. However, its utilization has been restricted owing to difficulties encountered when applying traditional mass propagation methods, requiring instead application of in vitro propagation methods for their mass scale production. Hence, this study was conducted to find the optimal plant growth regulators for shoot multiplication and root induction during in vitro propagation. Among the three cytokinins used at multiple concentrations for culture initiation and shoot multiplication, the most positive response was found with MS medium containing 5.0 μM 6-benzyladenine (BA), compared to more modest responses from other types of cytokinin, such as kinetin (KIN) and thidiazuron (TDZ). For root induction, medium supplemented with α- naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) produced a callus and inhibited shoot growth in explants, whereas indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) and indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) did not create any significant problems, but did display differences in root induction efficiencies. Generally, root induction responses with IBA were better that those with IAA. The maximum rooting rates were observed without callus formation and no shoot growth inhibition from explants grown on media supplemented with 0.67 μM IBA. Further, inter-simple sequence repeat (ISSR) analyses revealed that micropropagated plantlets generated in medium supplemented with 5.0 μM BA and 0.67 μM IBA did not lead to genetic variation. Therefore, the application of the in vitro propagation method developed in this study could be used on a commercial scale and will offer opportunities to strengthen the industrial use of V. amurensis 'Cheongsan'.
Resistance to Xanthomonas perforans race T4 causing bacterial spot in tomato breeding lines. Tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) is the second most important vegetable crop in the world. Bacterial spot (BS) of tomato, caused by four species of Xanthomonas: X. euvesicatoria, X. vesicatoria, X. perforans and X. gardneri, results in severe loss in yield and quality due to defoliation and formation of lesions on fruits, respectively. Currently management practices do not offer effective control under conditions of high disease pressure. Thus, developing BS resistance is a critical priority for tomato growers in order to minimize crop losses. Sixty-three advanced tomato breeding lines, heirlooms and wild tomato lines with diverse genetic backgrounds were screened under greenhouse and field conditions for BS resistance using X. perforans race T4, which was found to be a prevalent race in North Carolina. Race T4 isolate 9 was used to inoculate the plants by spraying, and disease severity was measured using the Horsfall–Barratt scale. Tomato lines 74L-1W(2008), NC2CELBR, 081-12-1X-gsms, NC22L-1 (2008) and 52LB-1 showed resistance to BS in the field and/or greenhouse trials. These lines were derived from S. pimpinellifolium L3707. Screening L3707 followed by development of a mapping population and mapping resistance genes might be useful for breeding resistance against BS in future breeding programmes.
Dispatch strategies of PV-battery microgrid in different scenarios. The method of day-ahead dynamic economic dispatch is applied to the microgrid composed of photovoltaic (PV) generation system and batteries to make its operational cost minimized. A simplified kinetic battery model, in which the dynamic non-linear constraints of charge/discharge power limits are considered, is adopted and solved by improved multi-population real-coded genetic algorithm (RCGA). The individuals in the improved algorithm can be modified according to charge/discharge power. Meanwhile, the battery's state of charge (SOC) is added into the objective function. Taking a microgrid for case study, the dynamic economic dispatch is compared with other dispatch strategies under scenarios with different depreciation cost and power rates. The results verify the effectiveness of the dynamic economic dispatch, and help determine its proper scope of utilization.
A 5-year study of the incidence and economic impact of variant infectious bursal disease viruses on broiler production in Saskatchewan, Canada. While the prevalence of infectious bursal disease virus (IBDV) on chicken farms in some provinces of Canada has been documented, the economic impact of variant IBDV infection on the broiler chicken industry in Saskatchewan has not. The objectives of this study were to identify the variant strains of IBDV circulating on Saskatchewan chicken farms and evaluate their economic impact on broiler production. Infection due to IBDV was detected in 43% of Saskatchewan chicken farms, with variant strains detected in infected birds closely related predominantly to NC171, 586, and Delaware-E. Infected flocks showed an IBDV antibody titer of 4236 geometric mean (GM), whereas an antibody titer of 157 GM was measured in uninfected flocks. Infected flocks had very low (0.06) bursa-to-body-weight (BBW) ratio (an indicator of immunity) compared to high BBW ratio (0.17) in uninfected flocks, which suggests a significant immunosuppression in the former. Flocks positive for IBDV had mean mortality of 8.6% and mean condemnation of 1.5%. In contrast, mean mortality in uninfected flocks was 6.1% and mean condemnation was 1.1%. The live market weight per grow area at 37 d of age was 29.3 kg/m2 in infected flocks and 34.0 kg/m2 in flocks without IBDV infection. Flock mortality and condemnation rate were positively correlated with IBDV infection, whereas low BBW ratio was inversely correlated, as expected. Overall, IBDV-infected flocks had higher mortality, bursal atrophy, poorer feed conversion ratio (FCR), and decreased meat production. Our data suggest that the broiler chicken industry in Saskatchewan loses 3.9 million kilograms of meat production per year due to variant IBDV strains.
System-level design and configuration management for run-time reconfigurable devices. Dynamically reconfigurable hardware (DRHW) not only has high silicon reusability, but it can also deliver high performance for computation-intensive tasks. Advanced features such as run-time reconfiguration (RTR) allow multiple tasks to be mapped onto the same device either simultaneously or multiplexed in time domain. This new type of computing element also brings new challenges in the design process. Design supports at the system level are needed. In addition, the configuration latency and the configuration energy involved in each reconfiguration process can largely degrade the system performance. Approaches to efficiently manage the configuration processes are needed in order to effectively reduce its negative impacts. In this thesis, system-level supports for design of DRHW and various configuration management approaches for reducing the impact of configuration overhead are presented. Our system-level design supports are based on the SystemC environment. An estimation technique for system partitioning and a DRHW modeling technique are developed. The main idea is to help designers in the early design phase to evaluate the benefit of moving some components from fixed hardware implementation to DRHW. The supports have been applied in a WCDMA case study. In order to efficiently apply the multi-tasking feature of DRHW, we have developed three static task scheduling techniques and a run-time scheduling technique. The static schedulers include a list-based heuristic approach, an optimal approach based on constraint programming and a guided random search approach using a genetic algorithm. They are evaluated using both random tasks and real applications. The run-time scheduling uses a novel configuration locking technique. The idea is to dynamically track the task status and lock the most frequently used tasks on DRHW in order to reduce the number of reconfigurations. In addition, we present two novel techniques to reduce the configuration overhead. The first is configuration parallelism. Its idea is to enable tasks to be loaded in parallel in order to better exploit their parallelism. The second is dynamic voltage scaling. The idea is to apply low supply voltage in reconfiguration process when possible in order to reduce the configuration energy.
An innovative SW-HW strategy for quantum-evolutionary algorithms implementation. In this paper it is proposed an innovative SW-HW prototype platform for the implementation of an optimizer inspired by quantum computing. It's based on an evolutionary algorithm, called quantum evolutionary algorithm (QEA). It combines the principles of quantum algorithms, such as quantum bit and superposition of states, with the robustness of genetic algorithms. The detailed QEA algorithm and its hardware implementation by a FPGA board is therefore described. Together with the hardware implementation, it is also described the use of a customable software fitness in order to solve general purpose problems. In this case, HW-SW connections are provided by a suitable PCI interface. The final goal is to build a flexible object able to perform a fast optimization of the choice of parameters in a control system, with particular attention on industrial and automotive applications.
Genes, environment, and race : Quantitative genetic approaches. Understanding the origins of racial health disparities is currently a central focus of health-oriented funding agencies and the health policy community. In particular, the role of genetics in the origin of racial health disparities is receiving growing attention and has been susceptible to considerable misinterpretation. In this article, the authors provide a basic discussion about the concept of genes and race, an introduction to quantitative genetics, and some examples of quantitative genetic analyses of health conditions in an underserved population. The intent is to outline the conceptual limitations of exclusivist views of either environmental or genetic determination and to emphasize the coaction and interaction of genes and environments in health.
Reduction of acidity in mature oil palm (Elaeis guineensis Jacq.) fruits: Stakes and oil quality improvement. A review. Introduction. Palm oil acidification determines the quality and stability of this important foodstuff. This review article analyzes the causes of acidification, and its effects on the quality and stability of palm oil. The stakes involved in the reduction of acidity in fruits and the approaches used are also analyzed, especially reduction via genetic improvement. Literature. Acidification is mainly due to the action of an endogenous lipase of the fruit’s mesocarp, but it can also be caused by microbial lipase or autocatalytic hydrolysis. Many factors, particularly plant material, conditions of harvest and post-harvest bunch treatment, and conditions of oil extraction and storage have an appreciable impact on acidification. Acidification reduces the quality and market value of palm oil and causes important oil losses due to the removal of free fatty acids in the mill. The genetic background of individuals of low oil acidity has been identified. The variability of this trait makes varietal selection possible. One gene implicated in palm oil acidification has been identified, but other genes or genetic factors may also be involved. Conclusions. Such research has led to the recent commercialization of the first oil palms with low acidity. This will improve oil quality, increase yield and facilitate the management of harvest and post-harvest operations, especially for smallholder farmers. There is a need to identify all the genetic factors responsible for the degradation of triglycerides in the Elaeis genus. The validation of genomic tools would allow the marker-assisted selection of oil palm varieties with low acidity.
Stormwater infiltration capacity of street tree pits: Quantifying the influence of different design and management strategies in New York City. Street trees are abundant in the urban landscape and provide many ecosystem services including stormwater management. For trees housed within tree pits, the ability to mitigate stormwater runoff can be modulated by the permeability of the soil within the tree pit itself. Thus, developing a better understanding of how tree pit design and management impact soil permeability can be important to quantifying, and potentially improving, the stormwater benefits of street trees. To this end, water infiltration rate was measured at forty tree pits representing the variety of physical conditions commonly seen in New York City, including the presence or absence of a tree pit guard, the size of the tree pit, the size of the tree, the presence or absence of ground cover planting, the presence or absence of mulch, and the elevation of the pit's soil surface relative to the sidewalk. An initial analysis of results first tested the impact of each physical condition on infiltration rate individually. Genetic programming was then used to investigate interactive effects between the physical conditions, and to develop a statistical model that captured 66% of the variability in the observed infiltration rate using simple physical features of a tree pit. Results showed that the most significant factor influencing the infiltration rate was the presence of a guard around a tree pit, with guarded tree pits having higher infiltration rates. Additionally, higher infiltration rates in guarded pits were associated with larger pit areas, built-up surface elevations (binary) and the combined presence of ground cover planting (binary) and mulch (binary). Tree size, as measured by circumference at breast height, was found to be a less significant indicator of the infiltration rate. The statistical model, together with the study measurements, can be used to estimate the stormwater benefits of different tree pit management strategies, inform designs for improved stormwater management, and help identify useful observations or measurements for a street tree census.
Memetic algorithms, domain knowledge, and financial investing. How might domain knowledge constrain a genetic algorithm and systematically impact the algorithm's traversal of the search space? In particular, in this paper the hypothesis is advanced that a semantic tree of financial knowledge can be used to influence the results of a genetic algorithm for financial investing problems. An algorithm is described, called the "Memetic Algorithm for Domain Knowledge", and is instantiated in a software system. In mutation experiments, this system chooses financial ratios to use as inputs to a neural logic network which classifies stocks as likely to increase or decrease in value. The mutation is guided by a semantic tree of financial ratios. In crossover experiments, this system solves a portfolio optimization problem in which components of an individual represent weights on stocks; knowledge in the form of a semantic tree of industries determines the order in which components are sorted in individuals. Both synthetic data and real-world data are used. The experimental results show that knowledge can be used to reach higher fitness individuals more quickly. More interestingly, the results show how conceptual distance in the human knowledge can correspond to distance between evolutionary individuals and their fitness. In other words, knowledge might be dynamically used to at times increase the step size in a search algorithm or at times to decrease the step size. These results shed light on the role of knowledge in evolutionary computation and are part of the larger body of work to delineate how domain knowledge might usefully constrain the genetic algorithm.
Genetic counseling in CHARGE syndrome: Diagnostic evaluation through follow up. CHARGE syndrome (CS) is a complex genetic disorder causing multiple birth defects and sensory deficits (hearing, vision, balance, smell). Genetic counseling in CS must include not only the provision of factual information about CS, its cause, and inheritance, but also information about the developmental implications of CS features, referral to appropriate resources, and assistance with psychosocial adaptation to this information. CS should be considered in patients with any of the major diagnostic features: coloboma, choanal atresia, semicircular canal anomalies, or cranial nerve anomalies. The prime candidates in the differential are 22q11.2 deletion and Kabuki syndromes. Evaluation of features of CS, dysmorphology examination, and genetic testing can usually distinguish between the three conditions. Genetic counseling is important from early on, to help the family understand the process of genetic diagnosis, to interpret information coming from other specialists and to provide support and resources. Parents can easily be overwhelmed with the complexity of issues facing their child at diagnosis and in the future. CS is a substantial burden on a child, with high early mortality, multiple illnesses, hospitalizations and surgeries, and apparent medical fragility throughout life. The medical complexity of CS disrupts family life and contributes to delayed development. Multiple sensory deficits (impaired vision, hearing, and balance) further contribute to delayed motor and language development despite many individuals with CS having normal intelligence. Early referral to specialists in deafblindness and sensory deficits is essential. Resources are available to assist genetic counselors in diagnosis, follow-up, and management of patients with CS.
Native hypersaline sulphate reducing bacteria contributes to iron nanoparticle formation in saltpan sediment: A concern for aquaculture. A hypersaline dissimilatory sulphate reducing bacterium, strain LS4, isolated from the sediments of Ribander saltpan, Goa, India was found to produce (Fe2O3) maghemite nanoparticles. The presence of maghemite nanoparticles was also detected in the same sediment. Strain LS4 was isolated anaerobically on modified Hatchikian's media at 300 psu, growing optimally at 30 °C, 150 psu salinity and pH 7.8. Based on biochemical characteristics and 16S rRNA sequence analysis, the strain LS4 belongs to genus Desulfovibrio. This isolate synthesized iron oxide nanoparticles in vitro when challenged with FeCl3 & FeSO4 in the growth medium. The biological nanoparticles were characterized to be Fe2O3 nanoparticle of 19 nm size by X-ray diffraction, transmission electron microscopy, fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, scanning electron microscopy and energy-dispersive x-ray spectroscopy. Maghemite nanoparticles (5.63 mg g−1) were isolated from the saltpan sediment by magnetic separation which showed similar characteristic features to the Fe2O3 nanoparticle produced by strain LS4 with an average size of 18 nm. Traditionally Goan saltpans were used for aquaculture during the non-salt making season, thus effects of these nanoparticles on Zebra fish embryo development were checked, which resulted in developmental abnormalities and DNA damage in a dose dependent manner. With the increasing nanoparticle concentration (0.1 mg.L−1 to100 mg.L−1), the mortality rate increased with a decrease in the hatching rate (93.05 ± 2.4 to 25 ± 4.16%) and heart rate (150–120 beats per minute). The nanoparticle exposed embryos developed malformed larvae with a characteristic of pericardial edema, curved body, curved notochord, curved tail and curved tail tip. These results suggest that strain LS4 might be playing a role as a contributor in the formation of iron oxide nanoparticle in the Ribander saltpan sediment, however; its high concentration will have a negative impact on aquaculture in these saltpans.
Sine wave filters design for AC motor drives with genetic algorithms. This paper proposes a suitable design methodology of the filter used at the output of inverters for AC motor drives. While it allows to achieve the best tradeoff among different design constraints that are difficult to include in standard design methods, such an approach is able to simultaneously consider several technical issues such as losses and voltage drops of the filter, total harmonic distortion of currents and voltages as well as economic aspects. Accordingly, the proposed procedure determines the optimal values of the filter parameters by exploiting simulations of accurate model of the electrical drive and genetic algorithms. Hence, no rough approximations or complex analytical calculations are performed to suitably design the inverter output filter. The method was validated by means of various tests performed on two different induction motor drives, considering some significant design constraint scenarios.
Urbanization reduces genetic connectivity in bobcats (Lynx rufus) at both intra– and interpopulation spatial scales. Urbanization is a major factor driving habitat fragmentation and connectivity loss in wildlife. However, the impacts of urbanization on connectivity can vary among species and even populations due to differences in local landscape characteristics, and our ability to detect these relationships may depend on the spatial scale at which they are measured. Bobcats (Lynx rufus) are relatively sensitive to urbanization and the status of bobcat populations is an important indicator of connectivity in urban coastal southern California. We genotyped 271 bobcats at 13,520 SNP loci to conduct a replicated landscape resistance analysis in five genetically distinct populations. We tested urban and natural factors potentially influencing individual connectivity in each population separately, as well as study–wide. Overall, landscape genomic effects were most frequently detected at the study–wide spatial scale, with urban land cover (measured as impervious surface) having negative effects and topographic roughness having positive effects on gene flow. The negative effect of urban land cover on connectivity was also evident when populations were analyzed separately despite varying substantially in spatial area and the proportion of urban development, confirming a pervasive impact of urbanization largely independent of spatial scale. The effect of urban development was strongest in one population where stream habitat had been lost to development, suggesting that riparian corridors may help mitigate reduced connectivity in urbanizing areas. Our results demonstrate the importance of replicating landscape genetic analyses across populations and considering how landscape genetic effects may vary with spatial scale and local landscape structure.
ZnO and TiO2 nanoparticles alter the ability of Bacillus subtilis to fight against a stress. Due to the physicochemical properties of nanoparticles, the use of nanomaterials increases over time in industrial and medical processes. We herein report the negative impact of nanoparticles, using solid growth conditions mimicking a biofilm, on the ability of Bacillus subtilis to fight against a stress. Bacteria have been exposed to sublethal doses of nanoparticles corresponding to conditions that bacteria may meet in their natural biotopes, the upper layer of soil or the gut microbiome. The analysis of the proteomic data obtained by shotgun mass spectrometry have shown that several metabolic pathways are affected in response to nanoparticles, n-ZnO or n-TiO2, or zinc salt: the methyglyoxal and thiol metabolisms, the oxidative stress and the stringent responses. Nanoparticles being embedded in the agar medium, these impacts are the consequence of a physiological adaptation rather than a physical cell injury. Overall, these results show that nanoparticles, by altering bacterial physiology and especially the ability to resist to a stress, may have profound influences on a “good bacteria”, Bacillus subtilis, in its natural biotope and moreover, on the global equilibrium of this biotope.
Biology and management of the sugarcane aphid, Melanaphis sacchari (Zehntner) (Homoptera: Aphididae), in sorghum: A review. The sugarcane aphid, Melanaphis sacchari (Zehntner, 1897) is a key pest on sorghum and sugarcane in many areas of Africa, Asia, Australia, the Far East, and parts of Central and South America. The status of research of its geographical distribution, host range, nature of damage, extent of crop losses, and ecobiology in sorghum is summarized and research programs in different countries are reviewed. Numerous germplasm accessions, A/B- and R-lines, agronomic elite lines, hybrids, and varieties, identified as sources of resistance providing genetic diversity from different countries are listed. Studies on the components of resistance showed the predominance of antixenosis for colonization/establishment on IS 1144C, IS 12664C, and TAM 428, and antibiosis was observed on IS 12609C, IS 12664C, and TAM 428 for least number of days to reproduction, greater mortality, shorter longevity, and production of no or fewer nymphs. The morpho-physiological traits and biochemical factors associated with resistance have been discussed. There is a significant decline in diastase activity but increase in crude fiber and carbohydrates in the grain due to infestation by M. sacchari. It is a vector of three persistent viruses (millet red leaf, sugarcane yellow leaf, and sugarcane mosaic viruses). Among the control tactics, cultural practices, natural enemies, and chemical control together can prevent the sugarcane aphid from reaching the economic threshold levels. Current progress has been reviewed and ideas for future research are suggested.
Experiences of United States genetic counseling supervisors regarding race/ethnicity in supervision: A qualitative investigation. While addressing culture in supervision is important, research suggests genetic counseling supervisors are unsure how to discuss it within the supervisory relationship. This study explored the perceptions of genetic counselor supervisors from the United States regarding how their supervisors approached racial/ethnic differences in their supervisory relationships when they were students, effects on those relationships, and subsequent influences on their supervision practices. Nine genetic counselors who self-identified as White/Caucasian, and nine who self-identified as racial/ethnic backgrounds other than White/Caucasian, were purposively recruited to participate in semi-structured phone interviews. Questions explored participant perceptions of how their supervisors approached racial/ethnic differences in supervision, effects on those supervisory relationships, and influences of their experiences as students on their current supervision practice. Thematic analysis revealed four major themes, with most participants agreeing that (1) recognition of race/ethnicity in supervision was limited as a student and in their current supervision practices; (2) supervisors vary in their comfort discussing race/ethnicity; (3) prior student supervision experiences of racial/ethnic differences have limited effects on current supervision practice; and (4) supervisors desire more training in how to approach conversations around race/ethnicity. Further professional discussions about the role of race/ethnicity in the supervisory relationship and training in addressing the cultural context in supervision are needed.
Connectivity of Avicennia marina populations within a proposed marine transboundary conservation area between Kenya and Tanzania. Threatened ecosystems such as intertidal mangrove forests often span political boundaries and require cross-border conservation planning initiatives. Population connectivity is key to establish transboundary collaborative actions. In this study, we assessed genetic diversity and connectivity of mangrove populations in a proposed transboundary conservation area (TBCA) between Kenya and Tanzania, where human demography exerts increasing pressure on biodiversity and ecosystem services. East African mangrove ecosystems comprise a complex pattern of estuaries and coastal bays, with Avicennia marina as a major mangrove component. Our main objective was to test a hypothesis of overall migration directionality reflecting regional ocean surface current flows. Fourteen microsatellite markers in 670 A. marina trees revealed no overall significant difference in allele or gene diversity levels between populations but showed an overall effect of geographic distance with a gradient of admixed gene pools. Migration tests and Approximate Bayesian computations supported a customized stepping-stone model of overall south to north migration with bidirectional gene flow and admixture between adjacent bays near the Kenya-Tanzania border. Observed patterns of gene flow suggest an important effect of large rivers and connections via creeks. Our results indicate that relevance for conservation and management of mangroves areas may remain largely within a hydrological connectivity context of each bay, despite prevailing genetic estimates reflecting historically well-connected mangroves between bays. For sustainable management, populations must be considered complementary and not redundant. Hence, transboundary regions must primarily adhere to local contemporary conservation and management, and not solely rely on the assumption of strong regional connectivity built historically.
Efficient bootstrap stacking ensemble learning model applied to wind power generation forecasting. The use of wind energy plays a vital role in society owing to its economic and environmental importance. Knowing the wind power generation within a specific time window is useful for facilitating decision making in terms of maintenance, electricity market clearing, and reload sharing. However, the effect of climatic and demographic factors on wind power generation sometimes makes time series forecasting a complex task. Thus, this study evaluates an ensemble learning model that combines bagging and stacking methods applied to time series forecasting with very short-term (10 and 30-minutes) and short-term (60 and 120-minutes) evaluations of wind power generation. Arithmetic and weighted average values were used to integrate the samples from bagging strategy. The weights are defined through multi-objective optimization using a non-dominated sorting genetic algorithm – version II, aiming to enhance the forecasting accuracy and stability simultaneously. To demonstrate the wide applicability of the non-linear ensemble learning model, it is extensively tested with measurement data collected from two wind farms in Bahia State, Brazil. The experimental results show that the proposed ensemble learning model achieves a better forecasting performance than single forecasting models, such as stacking, machine learning, artificial neural networks, and statistical models, with values of approximately 7.63%, 7.58%, 20.8%, and 25%, respectively, in terms of the errors for out-of-sample forecasting reduction. In addition, results with a weighted average are 87.5% superior to those with an arithmetic average for out-of-sample wind power forecasting in the evaluated forecasting horizons. The findings show that the integration of ensemble strategies can provide accurate forecasting results in the renewable energy field.
Hybrid key management scheme for Wireless Sensor Networks. Many key management schemes have been proposed in systematically deployed Wireless Sensor Networks (WSNs).The sensor nodes are equipped with inadequate battery power, low memory, limited computation and communication range. Energy efficient secure routing is major issue in wireless sensor networks. In this paper, the hybrid key management scheme is proposed by combining public key cryptography scheme with symmetric scheme. The symmetric keys are generated by using genetic algorithm. Initial input for the genetic algorithm is the seed key generated by Hyperelliptic Curve Cryptography (HECC).The proposed scheme addresses the energy efficiency, resilience against node capture attack, key refreshment between the cluster head and member nodes in the cluster. The simulation results show that the hybrid scheme is more robustness, efficient energy with reduced key size.
Energy Management Strategy Implementation for Hybrid Electric Vehicles Using Genetic Algorithm Tuned Pontryagin's Minimum Principle Controller. To reduce apace extraction of natural resources, to plummet the toxic emissions, and to increase the fuel economy for road transportation, hybrid vehicles are found to be promising. Hybrid vehicles use batteries and engine to propel the vehicle which minimizes dependence on liquid fuels. Battery is an important component of hybrid vehicles and is mainly characterized by its state of charge level. Here a modified state of charge estimation algorithm is applied, which includes not only coulomb counting but also open circuit voltage, weighting factor, and correction factor to track the run time state of charge efficiently. Further, presence of battery and engine together needs a prevailing power split scheme for their efficient utilization. In this paper, a fuel efficient energy management strategy for power-split hybrid electric vehicle using modified state of charge estimation method is developed. Here, the optimal values of various governing parameters are firstly computed with genetic algorithm and then fed to Pontryagin's minimum principle to decide the threshold power at which engine is turned on. This process makes the proposed method robust and provides better chance to improve the fuel efficiency. Engine efficient operating region is identified to operate vehicle in efficient regions and reduce fuel consumption.
Transcriptional profiling in burbot (Lota lota) from Lake Mjøsa-A Norwegian Lake contaminated by several organic pollutants. Lake Mjøsa is the largest freshwater repository in Norway, receiving runoff from a wide surrounding region of urban country. As a result of industrial activity, large quantities of persistent organic pollutants (POPs) have been discharged into Lake Mjøsa during the last century. The levels of PCBs, DDTs and PBDEs in burbot from Lake Mjøsa (study population) exceed the corresponding levels in burbot from Lake Losna (reference) by a factor of 3, 6 and 113, respectively. We used shotgun and suppression subtraction hybridization (SSH) cDNA libraries followed by 454 FLX sequencing (957 303 reads sequenced in total) and RT-qPCR to study the effects of POPs in burbot from Lake Mjøsa. The gene list of putatively higher or lower expressed genes in liver of burbot from Lake Mjøsa compared to liver of burbot from Lake Losna, generated from the SSH cDNA libraries, suggest that mechanisms associated with drug metabolism and oxidative stress are enriched in burbot from Lake Mjøsa (Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) top networks). According to the IPA analyses, the top toxicity list ranking was "LXR/RXR activation", "Negative/Positive acute phase response proteins", "LPS/IL-1-mediated inhibition of RXR function" and "FXR/RXR activation". Functional analyses further identified PPAR, HNF4A, dexamethasone and β-estradiol as potential upstream key regulator factors. Overall, the study shows that SSH cDNA libraries coupled to next-generation sequencing (RNA-Seq) may be a valuable supplement or alternative to microarray technology in toxicogenomic discovery of environmental samples.
Assessing production potential and quality parameters of ELS cotton (Gossypium barbadense) genotypes. There is a huge demand for ELS cotton (Gossypium barbadense L.) in India for its premium fibre properties, however, the area and production of ELS is very less.There is a considerable scope for extending the area of ELS under rainfed condition to increase the production.But the fibre quality got severely affected due to moisture stress in rainfed condition as the crop has long phase of growing period.Hence the experiment is conducted to ascertain the relationship between phenological periods with quality parameters to identify sensitive phenological periods for better crop management and also to assess the production potential of ELS genotypes compared with hirsutum hybrids.Amongst genotypes, seed cotton yield (kg/ha) was significantly higher with RCH659 BG II (H ∗ H) (2839 kg/ha) The quality parameters results revealed that suvin non Bt showed the significantly highest fibre length (39.3 mm of 2.5% span length) and fibre strength (32.0 g/tex).Fibre quality was superior in early formed bottom bolls compared to middle and top bolls.Quality traits were highly correlated with duration of the crop as duration gets shorter, quality becomes deteriorated.The duration of the first squaring, 50% flowering, and 50% boll bursting were positively and significantly correlated with fibre length and strength .The duration of 50% squaring to first flowering was significantly positively correlated with uniformity ratio.The economic analysis showed that inter specific hybrid MRC 7918 BG II registered the highest net return (∗ 116916/ha) which is better than intra-hirsutum hybrid RCH659 BG II (H∗ HX ∗ 99332/ha).
Toward glycerol biorefinery: metabolic engineering for the production of biofuels and chemicals from glycerol. As an inevitable by-product of the biofuel industry, glycerol is becoming an attractive feedstock for biorefinery due to its abundance, low price and high degree of reduction. Converting crude glycerol into value-added products is important to increase the economic viability of the biofuel industry. Metabolic engineering of industrial strains to improve its performance and to enlarge the product spectrum of glycerol biotransformation process is highly important toward glycerol biorefinery. This review focuses on recent metabolic engineering efforts as well as challenges involved in the utilization of glycerol as feedstock for the production of fuels and chemicals, especially for the production of diols, organic acids and biofuels.
Science reflects history as society influences science: Brief history of "race," "race correction," and the spirometer. Spirometers are used globally to diagnose respiratory diseases, and most commercially available spirometers "correct" for race. "Race correction" is built into the software of spirometers. To evaluate pulmonary function and to make recordings, the operator must enter the subject's race. In fact, the Joint Working Party of the American Thoracic Society/European Respiratory Society recommends the use of race- and ethnic-specific reference values. In the United States, spirometers apply correction factors of 10-15% for individuals labeled "Black" and 4-6% for people labeled "Asian." Thus race is purported to be a biologically important and scientifically valid category. However, history suggests that race corrections may represent an implicit bias, discrimination, and racism. Furthermore, this practice masks economic and environmental factors. The flawed logic of innate, racial difference is also considered with disability estimates, preemployment physicals, and clinical diagnoses that rely on the spirometer. Thomas Jefferson's Notes on the State of Virginia (1832) may have initiated this mistaken belief by noting deficiencies of the "pulmonary apparatus" of blacks. Plantation physicians used Jefferson's statement to support slavery, believing that forced labor was a way to "vitalize the blood" of deficient black slaves. Samuel Cartwright, a Southern physician and slave holder, was the first to use spirometry to record deficiencies in pulmonary function of blacks. A massive study by Benjamin Apthorp Gould (1869) during the Civil War validated his results. The history of slavery created an environment where racial difference in lung capacity become so widely accepted that race correction became a scientifically valid procedure.
The Impacts of Exposure to Environmental Risk on Physical and Mental Health in a Small Geographic Community in Houston, TX. Previous research has shown that communities with low average socioeconomic status (SES) and majority minority populations are more likely to be exposed to industrial buildings, waste facilities, and poor infrastructure compared to white communities with higher average SES. While some studies have demonstrated linkages between exposures to specific environmental contaminates within these communities and negative health outcomes, little research has analyzed the effects of environmental contaminants on the mental and physical health of these populations. A cross-sectional survey collected data from residents of Manchester, a small neighborhood in Houston, TX, that is characterized by industrial sites, unimproved infrastructure, nuisance flooding, and poor air quality. Our study (N = 109) utilized the 12 item Short Form Health Survey version 2 (SF12v2) to assess the general mental and physical health of the community. The community as a whole had reduced physical health scores compared to U.S. national averages. The time residents had lived in the neighborhood was also correlated with a reported reduction in physical health scores (r2 = 0.136; p-value <0.001). The association between time lived in the neighborhood and poorer health scores remained after adjusting for age, race, and gender (coef = −0.27, p-value <0.001). Mental health scores were within national averages and time spent living in the neighborhood did not appear to negatively impact respondent’s mental health scores. These findings point to the need for more research to determine the potential for additive physical and mental health impacts in long-term residents in neighborhoods characterized by environmental justice issues.
Urban consumer's attitudes toward genetically modified organisms and foods in Turkey. The present study, which is a first because it has a quality and design reflecting urbanite consumers across Turkey with a sampling tolerance of 2.83%, was conducted by using face-to-face interview technique with consumers (n=1222) specified through stratified random sampling method layered in homes and offices to determine awareness of genetic modification (GM) and GM foods of urban consumers. The obtained data were examined by considering socioeconomic status (SES), age and gender refractions. Although it is believed that GM and GM foods are advantageous economically, a negative attitude and perception was determined in especially expressions prepared according to five-point Likert scale due to considerations related to consumers' health, environment and biological diversification. Although consumers' attitude generally does not vary between age and gender groups, it was observed that subgroups, especially DE SES group, had more hospitable approach to (GM) and GM foods relatively compared to higher groups.
"It's all about trust": reflections of researchers on the complexity and controversy surrounding biobanking in South Africa. Background: Biobanks are precariously situated at the intersection of science, genetics, genomics, society, ethics, the law and politics. This multi-disciplinarity has given rise to a new discourse in health research involving diverse stakeholders. Each stakeholder is embedded in a unique context and articulates his/her biobanking activities differently. To researchers, biobanks carry enormous transformative potential in terms of advancing scientific discovery and knowledge. However, in the context of power asymmetries in Africa and a distrust in science born out of historical exploitation, researchers must balance the scientific imperative of collecting, storing and sharing high quality biological samples with obligations to donors/participants, communities, international collaborators, regulatory and ethics authorities. To date, researcher perspectives on biobanking in South Africa have not been explored and documented. Methods: In-depth qualitative interviews were conducted with a purposive sample of 21 researchers - 8 in the Western Cape, 3 in Gauteng and 10 in Kwa-Zulu Natal. Interviews lasted approximately 40-60 min and were audiotaped with consent. Thematic analysis of the transcribed interviews was conducted by the co-authors. Results: Researchers articulated serious concerns over standardised regulatory approaches that failed to consider the heterogeneity of biobanks. Given that biobanks differ considerably, guidelines and RECs need to stratify risk accordingly and governance processes and structures must be flexible. While RECs were regarded as an important component of the governance structure researchers expressed concern about their expertise in biobanking. Operational management of biobanks was regarded as an ethical imperative and a pre-requisite to building trust during consent processes. While broad general consent was preferred, tiered consent was thought to be more consistent with respect for autonomy and building trust. Material Transfer Agreements (MTAs) were often lacking when biosamples were exported and this was perceived to impact negatively on trust. On the other hand, researchers believed that authentic community engagement would help to build trust. Conclusion: Building trust will best be achieved via a system of governance structures and processes that precede the establishment of a biobank and monitor progress from the point of sample collection through to future use, including export. Such governance structures must be robust and must include comprehensive national legislation, policy and contextualised guidelines. Currently such governance infrastructure appears to be lacking in many African countries including South Africa. Capacity development of all stakeholders including REC members will enhance expeditious and efficient review of biobanking protocols which in turn will reinforce trust in the researcher-donor relationship. Science translation and community engagement in biobanking is integral to the success of biobanking in South Africa.
A hybrid data-driven method for rapid prediction of lithium-ion battery capacity. The quick and accurate prediction of future capacity is a challenging issue in the field of battery health management. To solve this problem, the paper proposes a data-driven model based on advanced machine-learning techniques. First, wavelet transform is used to denoise the initial features, and the relatively important features are selected with the help of random forest. Second, the paper uses the approximate entropy theory to construct multi-time scale sliding window data to solve the problem that the sliding window size can not be determined in traditional methods. Third, in order to overcome the disadvantages of traditional methods, such as the comparative inefficiency in converging and using temporal contextual information, the paper proposes a novel mogrifier long short-term memory network denoted as QGA-ASM-LSTM, which is based on attention mechanism and similarity judgment mechanism, using quantum genetic algorithm to optimize its parameters. Finally, the proposed data-driven method is used to model the degradation of lithium-ion batteries and finish the fast capacity prediction. The results of experiments on different public datasets demonstrate that the performance of QGA-ASM-LSTM exceeds the state-of-the-art models in terms of prediction accuracy and training time.
Terminal Distribution Planning of Urban Cold Chain Logistics Based on Complex Network and Actual Traffic Data. Aiming at the problem of cold chain logistics terminal distribution network planning, the complex network was introduced into the distribution area planning, and the urban cold chain logistics distribution was transformed into a complex network model. Considering the influence of actual traffic factors, such as bidirectional urban roads and road conditions, the two-way transit time between nodes was obtained by using Gaode map software to express the logistics relationship between nodes in the model. The Louvain community discovery method was used to divide the logistics distribution area, and the genetic algorithm was used to optimize the vehicle route in combination with the actual case. By comparing the distribution cost and vehicle loading rate before and after the distribution network planning, the results show that the proposed method can effectively reduce the overall distribution cost.
Reactive power compensation in unbalanced systems using genetic algorithms. The energy efficiency of an electric system depends in great extent of the reactive power compensation that is carried out. One of the ways most used for reactive is power of capacitor banks. A good selection of these, presupposes three aspects: the selection of the banks capacity, the compensator type to be used and the allocation in the power system. These aspects are treated through independent methods. However, each one depends on the rest and all have an economic implication, which peads to the necessity of their consideration in the optimization problem itself. There are references of methods that consider the three aspects in a same problem, but these present restrictions in their applications for secondary power systems. In the paper, we have developed a method with the use of genetic algorithms, which facilitates a more exact problem formulation. The method has been programmed in software MATLAB, version 7.5 (R2007b), using programming structures of Genetic Algorithm and Direct Search Toolbox. The effectiveness is shown in two zstudy cases of systems hotels, belonging to the commercial building consumer sector.
The production of pyrethrins by plant cell and tissue cultures of Chrysanthemum cinerariaefolium and Tagetes species. Pyrethrins, the most economically important natural insecticide, comprise a group of six closely related monoterpene esters. The industrial production is based on their extraction from Chrysanthemum cinerariaefolium (Pyrethrum) capitula. The world production of natural pyrethrins still falls short of global market demand stimulating the research in in vitro production as an alternative to conventional cultivation methods. The different biotechnological alternatives such as callus cultures, shoot and root cultures, plant cell suspension cultures, and bioconversion of precursors by means of enzymatic synthesis or genetically engineered microorganisms, as well as the progress achieved in methods for the identification and quantitation of insecticidal compounds have been reviewed. Although technology for plant cell culture exists, industrial applications have, to date, been limited due to both the low economical viability and technological feasibility at large scale. Bioconversion of readily available precursors looks more attractive, but more research is needed before this technology is used for the industrial production of pyrethrins.
Temporal and spatial law of promotion center moving and diffusion of excellent maize varieties. Finding the suitable planting environment for the maize variety plays a decisive role in crop varieties precision marketing. New varieties need to adapt to the promotion environment quickly and be supposed to behave well. However, the performance of crop variety during field production results from genotype effect, environment effect, and genotype-by-environment interaction (GEI) effect. So far, the performance of varieties has showed great difference in the promotion stage. On the one hand, the excellent promoted varieties are not sufficient. The analysis methods of characteristics and attributions are still in the initial stage and the index definition varies differently. On the other hand, the laws of characteristics of the excellent maize variety performance have not been fully excavated. For most of the varieties, which have gone through the national regional test, variety certification and screening, the characteristics and rules have not been fully mined. Therefore, many approved varieties have not been accepted by the market in different spatial scales. In this paper, based on the data of the cultivated area of the varieties that have been approved and entered into the promotion period from 1982 to 2012, we fit and verify the applicability of Gaussian model in the province scale. Firstly, we provide a classification method, which helps to find out the excellent promoted varieties and explore the rule of promotion center transformation and diffusion from the different spatial scales. We select the maize varieties whose planting area has reached 6.67 million hectare or more and the promotion time is more than 5 years, and the life cycle curve of variety is fitted in both national and provincial scales. Secondly, we classify the varieties and choose the excellent varieties combined with spatial information, discovering the rules that the excellent maize varieties can be divided into 2 categories, which are big varieties, which should be promoted in most of the provinces with larger area and longer time across the country and reflect the universal suitability, and regional special varieties, which should be promoted in only limited provinces with larger area and longer time and reflect the special suitability. Last but not the least, the method can quickly find out excellent corn varieties and select the characteristics of the varieties that can be taken as key indicators for promotion. We have explored the temporal and spatial diffusion law of excellent varieties, as well as the promotion center's transformation distribution, in order to summarize all kinds of suitable promotion models of varieties. According to the results, excellent varieties in the national and provincial scale conform to the Gaussian life cycle curve of varieties, which obviously has characteristics of space and time. Besides, the diffusion modes of the big varieties and regional special varieties are different. For the big varieties, the promotion center always transfers to the nearby provinces, which means it can radiate to the surrounding environment. For the regional special varieties, the promotion center always starts from several provinces but transfers to the distant one or two provinces, which means it has a leaping diffusion. The performance of excellent maize varieties in different provinces also behaves differently in the same ecological region. The structure and replacement of varieties are also not the same from provinces to provinces, which are relevant to the way of the province promotion and the acceptance of varieties. In conclusion, based on geographic information system (GIS), this article has preliminarily exploited the temporal and spatial diffusion law of excellent promoted maize varieties as well as the promotion center's transformation distribution, which are from the Huang-Huai-Hai maize planting region and the Dong-Hua-Bei maize planting region. It suggests that excellent promoted varieties should be promoted at the regional scale, which is of great significance for guiding crop varieties suitability analysis and variety test design in the target maize planting region.
Dynamics Optimization Research and Dynamics Accuracy and Reliability Analysis of a Multi-Link Mechanism with Clearances. With the development of high-speed and lightweight mechanisms, and the continuous improvement of manufacturing accuracy requirements in industrial production, clearance joints have increasingly become one of the key factors affecting dynamics performance. Poor clearance will seriously compromise stability, accuracy, and dynamics performance. Based on a genetic algorithm, an efficient modeling methodology for the dynamics optimization of a planar complex multi-link mechanism containing multiple clearance joints is put forward. The model comprises a 2-degree of freedom (DOF) nine-bar mechanism that can be used as the main transmission mechanism of a hybrid drive multi-link press, which is taken as the research object. The optimization objective is to minimize the maximum acceleration of the slider and minimize the difference between the actual central trajectory and the ideal trajectory. By optimizing the quality parameters of key components, an optimal solution for the design parameters is obtained, and the effects of the different optimizations of the objective functions on dynamics response are compared and analyzed. At the same time, a new modeling and calculation methodology of the dynamics accuracy and reliability of a complex multi-link mechanism in terms of multiple clearances is proposed, and the effect of optimization on dynamics accuracy and the reliability of the mechanism is analyzed. Based on the optimization results obtained by taking the minimum difference between the actual center trajectory and the ideal trajectory as an optimization objective, the nonlinear characteristics before and after optimization are analyzed through a phase diagram and Poincaré map. A test platform was built to study the dynamics of the mechanism with clearances. Research not only provides a basis for the dynamics optimization of a multi-link mechanism containing clearances but also provides reference significance for the reliability analysis of a multi-link mechanism containing clearances.
Augmenting the immune response against a stabilized hiv-1 clade c envelope trimer by silica nanoparticle delivery. The delivery of HIV-1 envelope (Env) trimer-based immunogens on the surface of nanopar-ticles holds promise to promote immunogenicity with the aim of inducing a potent, durable and broad neutralizing antibody (bnAb) response. Towards that goal, we examined the covalent conjugation of Env to 100 nm and 200 nm silica nanoparticles (SiNPs) to optimize conjugation density and attachment stability. Env was redesigned to enable site-specific cysteine-mediated covalent conjugation while maintaining its structural integrity and antigenicity. Env was anchored to different sized SiNPs with a calculated spacing of 15 nm between adjacent trimers. Both particle sizes exhibited high in vitro stability over a seven-day period. After attachment, 100 nm particles showed better colloidal stability compared to 200 nm particles. Importantly, the antigenic profile of Env was not impaired by surface attachment, indicating that the quaternary structure was maintained. In vitro Env uptake by dendritic cells was significantly enhanced when Env was delivered on the surface of nanoparticles compared to soluble Env. Furthermore, multivalent Env displayed efficiently activated B cells even at Env concentrations in the low nanomolar range. In mice, antibody responses to nanoparticle-coupled Env were stronger compared to the free protein and had equivalent effects at lower doses and without adjuvant.
Optimal reactive power dispatch by improved GSA-based algorithm with the novel strategies to handle constraints. Optimal reactive power dispatch (ORPD) is well known as a complex mixed integer nonlinear optimization problem where many constraints are required to handle. In the last decades, many artificial intelligence-based optimization methods have been used to solve ORPD problem. But, these optimization methods lack an effective means to handle constraints on state variables. Thus, in this paper, the novel and feasible conditional selection strategies (CSS) are devised to handle constraints efficiently in the proposed improved gravitational search algorithm (GSA-CSS). In addition, considering the weakness of GSA itself, the improved GSA-CSS (IGSA-CSS) is presented which employs the memory property of particle swarm optimization (PSO) to enhance global searching ability and utilizes the concept of opposition-based learning (OBL) for optimizing initial population. The presented GSA-CSS and IGSA-CSS methods are applied to ORPD problem on IEEE14-bus, IEEE30-bus and IEEE57-bus test systems for minimization of power transmission losses (Ploss) and voltage deviation (Vd), respectively. The comparisons of simulation results reveal that IGSA-CSS provides better results and the improvements of algorithm in this work are feasible and effective.
Extracellular synthesis of silver nanoparticles by acinetobacter baumanii and antibacterial characterization. Bioproduction approaches of nanoparticles get a very important field with eco-friendly and economic welfares over physical & chemical methods of production. The purpose is the biosynthesis of AgNPs from non-pathogenic bacterial isolate. Acinetobacter baumanii. Identification to species-level was determined by Polymerase Chain reaction (PCR) with universal primers, the 16S rRNA gene was subjected to nucleotide sequencing. AgNPs were biosynthesized by adding silver nitrate (AgNO3) into the supernatant of A. baumanii at 10 mM. AgNO3 was used as a precursor for the synthesis of AgNPs. Biological AgNPs were originally shown by change the color, yellow to reddish-brown. The categorization of AgNPs accomplished by SEM, XRD, and AFM. SEM exhibited well-dispersed AgNPs, homogenous with a diameter of 18-30nm, with inconstant shapes mostly spherical form. XRD detected the size of AgNPs was 21 nm and the AFM showed the three-dimensional structure of AgNPs and the diameter was 99.82 nm. AgNPs displayed antibacterial action to MDR of E.aerogens, S.aureus, E.coli, S.typhi, K. Pneumonia, P.auroginosa, P.mirabilis, P.Agglomerans, and S.pyogenes.
DNA as grabbers and steerers of quantum emitters. The chemically synthesizable quantum emitters such as quantum dots (QDs), fluorescent nanodiamonds (FNDs), and organic fluorescent dyes can be integrated with an easy-to-craft quantum nanophotonic device, which would be readily developed by non-lithographic solution process. As a representative example, the solution dipping or casting of such soft quantum emitters on a flat metal layer and subsequent drop-casting of plasmonic nanoparticles can afford the quantum emitter-coupled plasmonic nanocavity (referred to as a nanoparticle-on-mirror (NPoM) cavity), allowing us for exploiting various quantum mechanical behaviors of light-matter interactions such as quantum electrodynamics (QED), strong coupling (e.g., Rabi splitting), and quantum mirage. This versatile, yet effective soft quantum nanophotonics would be further benefitted from a deterministic control over the positions and orientations of each individual quantum emitter, particularly at the molecule level of resolution. In this review, we will argue that DNA nanotechnology can provide a gold vista toward this end. A collective set of exotic characteristics of DNA molecules, including Watson-Crick complementarity and helical morphology, enables reliable grabbing of quantum emitters at the on-demand position and steering of their directors at the single molecular level. More critically, the recent advances in large-scale integration of DNA origami have pushed the reliance on the distinctly well-formed single device to the regime of the ultra-scale device arrays, which is critical for promoting the practically immediate applications of such soft quantum nanophotonics.
Recombinant plant-derived pharmaceutical proteins: current technical and economic bottlenecks. Molecular pharming is a cost-effective platform for the production of recombinant proteins in plants. Although the biopharmaceutical industry still relies on a small number of standardized fermentation-based technologies for the production of recombinant proteins there is now a greater awareness of the advantages of molecular pharming particularly in niche markets. Here we discuss some of the technical, economic and regulatory barriers that constrain the clinical development and commercialization of plant-derived pharmaceutical proteins. We also discuss strategies to increase productivity and product quality/homogeneity. The advantages of whole plants should be welcomed by the industry because this will help to reduce the cost of goods and therefore expand the biopharmaceutical market into untapped sectors.
Establishing a High-Throughput Locomotion Tracking Method for Multiple Biological Assessments in Tetrahymena. Protozoa are eukaryotic, unicellular microorganisms that have an important ecological role, are easy to handle, and grow rapidly, which makes them suitable for ecotoxicity assessment. Previous methods for locomotion tracking in protozoa are largely based on software with the drawback of high cost and/or low operation throughput. This study aimed to develop an automated pipeline to measure the locomotion activity of the ciliated protozoan Tetrahymena thermophila using a machine learning-based software, TRex, to conduct tracking. Behavioral endpoints, including the total distance, velocity, burst movement, angular velocity, meandering, and rotation movement, were derived from the coordinates of individual cells. To validate the utility, we measured the locomotor activity in either the knockout mutant of the dynein subunit DYH7 or under starvation. Significant reduction of locomotion and alteration of behavior was detected in either the dynein mutant or in the starvation condition. We also analyzed how Tetrahymena locomotion was affected by the exposure to copper sulfate and showed that our method indeed can be used to conduct a toxicity assessment in a high-throughput manner. Finally, we performed a principal component analysis and hierarchy clustering to demonstrate that our analysis could potentially differentiate altered behaviors affected by different factors. Taken together, this study offers a robust methodology for Tetrahymena locomotion tracking in a high-throughput manner for the first time.
Treatment and Management of Neuromuscular Channelopathies. Neuromuscular channelopathies are heterogeneous disorders with marked phenotypic and genotypic variability. These include non-dystrophic myotonia (NDM), periodic paralysis (PP), and congenital myasthenic syndrome (CMS). Their diverse clinical manifestations remain a challenge in diagnosis and management to this date. These disorders impact quality of life and cause lifelong disabling symptoms. Treatment options are few and not FDA-approved. This is largely due to a paucity of large, randomized clinical trials in these rare diseases. Challenges of conducting such trials include the rarity of these disorders and the genetic heterogeneity. Physicians rely on off-label use of drugs to treat muscle channelopathies to reduce morbidity and improve quality of life. Besides pharmacological treatment, dietary modifications, lifestyle changes, awareness of triggers, and genetic counseling also play an important role in long-term disease management. This article reviews the current management strategies for neuromuscular channelopathies.
Distribution of staphylococcal cassette chromosome mec types and correlation with comorbidity and infection type in patients with MRSA bacteremia. Background: Molecular epidemiological definitions that are based on staphylococcal cassette chromosome mec (SCCmec) typing and phylogenetic analysis of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) isolates are considered a reliable way to distinguish between healthcare-associated MRSA (HA-MRSA) and community-associated MRSA (CA-MRSA). However, there is little information regarding the clinical features and outcomes of bacteremia patients with MRSA carrying different SCCmec types. Methods: From January 1 through December 31, 2006, we recorded the demographic data and outcomes of 159 consecutive adult MRSA bacteremia patients from whom isolates for SCCmec analysis were collected. All participants were patients at a tertiary care center in Taiwan. Principal Findings: The following SCCmec types were identified in MRSA isolates: 30 SCCmec II (18.9%), 87 SCCmec III (54.7%), 22 SCCmec IV (13.8%), and 20 SCCmec V (12.6%). The time from admission to the first MRSA-positive blood culture for patients infected with isolates with the SCCmec III element (mean/median, 50.7/26 days) was significantly longer than for patients infected with isolates carrying SCCmec IV or V (mean/median, 6.7/3 days for SCCmec IV; 11.1/10.5 days for SCCmec V) (P<0.05). In univariate analysis, community onset, soft tissue infection, and deep-seated infection were predictors for SCCmec IV/V. In multivariate analysis, length of stay before index culture, diabetes mellitus, and being bedridden were independent risk factors associated with SCCmec II/III. Conclusions: These findings are in agreement with previous studies of the genetic characteristics of CA-MRSA. MRSA bacteremia with SCCmec II/III isolates occurred more among patients with serious comorbidities and prolonged hospitalization. Community onset, skin and soft tissue infection, and deep-seated infection best predicted SCCmec IV/V MRSA bacteremia.
Opportunities and constraints in the adaptation of technology for the diagnosis of bacterial plant diseases — experience from Tanzania. In order to improve diagnostic services and plant quarantine capabilities in Tanzania, the techniques of semi-selective media, the BACTID system, metabolic profiling (Biolog), indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA) and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) were assessed for suitability with the existing facilities for the diagnosis and detection of plant-pathogenic bacteria of vegetables. Field-collected samples as well as farmers’ own and commercial germplasm were used in studies involving Ralstonia solanacearum, Clavibacter michiganensis subsp. michiganensis and Xanthomonas campestris pv. vesicatoria in Solanaceae and X. c. pv. campestris in Brassicaceae. Each of the techniques was used successfully with one or more of the target pathogens; each had advantages depending on the speed, sensitivity and specificity required, as well as the costs of carrying out the diagnosis. However, constraints emerged relating to the use and disposal of materials such as plastic Petri dishes and toxic substances. The more familiar underlying constraints of high cost and poor availability of consumables and erratic water and electricity supply continued to present problems. These problems will be discussed in relation to the development of an integrated and sustainable approach to the provision of routine diagnostic services.
Metabolic interrelationships between arsenic and selenium. In 1938, Moxon discovered that arsenic protected against selenium toxicity. Since that time it has been shown that this protective effect of arsenic against selenium poisoning can be demonstrated in many different animal species under a wide variety of conditions. Antagonistic effects between arsenic and selenium have also been noted in teratologic experiments. Early metabolic studies showed that arsenic inhibited the expiration of volatile selenium compounds by rats injected with acutely toxic doses of both elements. This was puzzling since pulmonary excretion had long been regarded as a means by which animals could rid themselves of excess selenium. However, later work demonstrated that arsenic increased the biliary excretion of selenium. Not only did arsenic stimulate the excretion of selenium in the bile, but selenium also stimulated the excretion of arsenic in the bile. This increased biliary excretion of selenium caused by arsenic provides a reasonable rationale for the ability of arsenic to counteract the toxicity of selenium, although the chemical mechanism by which arsenic does this is not certain. The most satisfactory explanation is that these 2 elements react in the liver to form a detoxication conjugate which is then excreted into the bile. This is consistent with the fact that both arsenic and selenium each increase the biliary excretion of the other. Several other metabolic interactions between arsenic and selenium have been demonstrated in vitro, but their physiological significance is not clear. Although arsenic decreased selenium toxicity under most conditions, there is a pronounced synergistic toxicity between arsenic and 2 methylated selenium metabolites, trimethylselenonium ion or dimethyl selenide. The ecological consequences of these synergisms are largely unexplored, although it is likely that selenium methylation occurs in the environment. All attempts to promote or prevent selenium deficiency diseases in animals by feeding arsenic have been unsuccessful. Over 30 yr ago it was suggested that industrial hygienists use arsenic as a tonic to prevent or cure selenium poisoning in workers exposed to this hazard. Organic arsenical feed additives were tried as partial antidotes against selenium poisoning in livestock raised in seleniferous agricultural areas but were not found to be practical.
A new detailed loss model and design approach for LLC resonant converter with phase shift control to overall optimization of converter loss at whole battery charging process. This paper proposes a new loss modeling and design method for phase shift controlled resonant LLC converter with optimization applied to minimize the overall loss during the whole battery charging process. In this work, the loss model has been formulated more accurately for phase shift controlled LLC converter. One of the contributions in accurate loss modeling is all switching modes of power switches have been investigated in detail in the aspect of zero voltage switching (ZVS) and ZCS occurrence and their related dynamic loss are updated in loss calculation during the whole charging process. In addition, to optimize the copper and core losses of high-frequency transformer and resonant inductor, a design trend is included in optimization process to calculate the best physical dimensions and winding parameters of magnetic components. A genetic algorithm has been employed for the optimization during the charging process. In this work, the first harmonic approximation (FHA) model was developed and solved by nonlinear Newton–Raphson method in any operating point along one complete charging process. The target of optimization was designing a wall mounted type level 2 battery charger (7.4 kw/32A) for charging a battery pack with specs according to the Nissan Leaf 2011 electric vehicle. For verification of the proposed method, simulation results are provided and also experimental results for a low-scale prototype are proposed. In this study, the average efficiency along the overall charging process obtained up to 95% in simulation and 84% in experiments.
Artificial immune network-based anti-collision algorithm for dense RFID readers. Radio frequency identification (RFID) is faced with reader-to-reader collision problem when multiple readers are deployed densely. In scheduling-based methods, the reader-to-reader collision problem can be often mitigated from the viewpoint of optimized resource allocation to readers, which aims at maximizing the total effective interrogation area of an RFID reader network. This paper formulates a reader-to-reader anti-collision model with respect to physical positions, time slots, frequency channels and transmitting power, and thus proposes an artificial immune network with hybrid encoding for resource allocation (AINetHE-RA) to solve this model. In AINetHE-RA, a candidate antibody consists of a location segment, a channel segment and a power segment, where time slots are hidden in the last two segments. According to their respective properties, the location segment and the power segment are encoded by using real number; while the channel segment is encoded by integer number. This is the hybrid encoding format in essence. Correspondingly, in the mutation operator, different mutation strategies are designed for three segments, respectively, which make AINetHE-RA solve this reader-to-reader anti-collision model efficiently. In simulation experiments, the effects of such parameters as time slots, frequency channels, power values and locations are first investigated, and the total effective interrogation area and the number of identified tags are evaluated for the single and multiple density tag distribution. Especially, as an industrial example of non-uniform random tag distribution, the simple sectionalized warehouse management is considered to evaluate the performance of AINetHE-RA. The simulation results demonstrate that the proposed AINetHE-RA algorithm is effective and efficient in mitigating the reader-to-reader collision problem in dense RFID networks and outperforms such methods as GA-RA, PSO-GA and opt-aiNet-RA in finding the optimal resource allocation schemes.
275 years of forestry meets genomics in Pinus sylvestris. Pinus sylvestris has a long history of basic and applied research that is relevant for both forestry and evolutionary studies. Its patterns of adaptive variation and role in forest economic and ecological systems have been studied extensively for nearly 275 years, detailed demography for a 100 years and mating system more than 50 years. However, its reference genome sequence is not yet available and genomic studies have been lagging compared to, for example, Pinus taeda and Picea abies, two other economically important conifers. Despite the lack of reference genome, many modern genomic methods are applicable for a more detailed look at its biological characteristics. For example, RNA-seq has revealed a complex transcriptional landscape and targeted DNA sequencing displays an excess of rare variants and geographically homogenously distributed molecular genetic diversity. Current DNA and RNA resources can be used as a reference for gene expression studies, SNP discovery, and further targeted sequencing. In the future, specific consequences of the large genome size, such as functional effects of regulatory open chromatin regions and transposable elements, should be investigated more carefully. For forest breeding and long-term management purposes, genomic data can help in assessing the genetic basis of inbreeding depression and the application of genomic tools for genomic prediction and relatedness estimates. Given the challenges of breeding (long generation time, no easy vegetative propagation) and the economic importance, application of genomic tools has a potential to have a considerable impact. Here, we explore how genomic characteristics of P. sylvestris, such as rare alleles and the low extent of linkage disequilibrium, impact the applicability and power of the tools.
Effect of temperature and colonization of Legionella pneumophila and Vermamoeba vermiformis on bacterial community composition of copper drinking water biofilms. It is unclear how the water-based pathogen, Legionella pneumophila (Lp), and associated free-living amoeba (FLA) hosts change or are changed by the microbial composition of drinking water (DW) biofilm communities. Thus, this study characterized the bacterial community structure over a 7-month period within mature (> 600-day-old) copper DW biofilms in reactors simulating premise plumbing and assessed the impact of temperature and introduction of Lp and its FLA host, Vermamoeba vermiformis (Vv), co-cultures (LpVv). Sequence and quantitative PCR (qPCR) analyses indicated a correlation between LpVv introduction and increases in Legionella spp. levels at room temperature (RT), while at 37°C, Lp became the dominant Legionella spp. qPCR analysis suggested Vv presence may not be directly associated with Lp biofilm growth at RT and 37°C, but may contribute to or be associated with non-Lp legionellae persistence at RT. Two-way PERMANOVA and PCoA revealed that temperature was a major driver of microbiome diversity. Biofilm community composition also changed over the seven-month period and could be associated with significant shifts in dissolved oxygen, alkalinity and various metals in the influent DW. Hence, temperature, biofilm age, DW quality and transient intrusions/amplification of pathogens and FLA hosts may significantly impact biofilm microbiomes and modulate pathogen levels over extended periods.
Water consumption forecasting using soft computing- A case study, Trinidad and Tobago. Water scarcity is one of the world's fastest growing epidemics. Therefore, to combat it or mitigate the risks one must first understand how water is being consumed. This study focuses on the analysis of domestic water consumption with reference to how much of it is being consumed. Additionally, the study aims to propose an applicable and consistent method to forecast urban water consumption by using soft computing techniques. The investigation highlights the hourly, daily and monthly water consumption levels as well as the relationship between climate change and water demand using gene expression programming (GEP). The results of the study are relatively promising as it demonstrates that GEP can predict water consumption incorporating seasonal changes of wet and dry periods.
System reliability forecasting by support vector machines with genetic algorithms. Support vector machines (SVMs) have been used successfully to deal with nonlinear regression and time series problems. However, SVMs have rarely been applied to forecasting reliability. This investigation elucidates the feasibility of SVMs to forecast reliability. In addition, genetic algorithms (GAs) are applied to select the parameters of an SVM model. Numerical examples taken from the previous literature are used to demonstrate the performance of reliability forecasting. The experimental results reveal that the SVM model with genetic algorithms (SVMG) results in better predictions than the other methods. Hence, the proposed model is a proper alternative for forecasting system reliability.
Toxicity of silver nanoparticles to Arabidopsis: Inhibition of root gravitropism by interfering with auxin pathway. Impacts of polyvinylpyrrolidine-coated silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) on root gravitropism in Arabidopsis thaliana were investigated at the physiological, cellular, and molecular levels. Our results showed that AgNPs were taken up by the root and primarily localized at the cell wall and intercellular spaces. Root gravitropism was inhibited by exposure to AgNPs, and the inhibition in root gravitropism caused by exposure to AgNPs exhibited a dose–response relationship. Auxin accumulation was reduced in the root tips because of exposure to AgNPs. However, increased indole-3-acetic acid level could not rescue the inhibition of root gravitropism. Real-time polymerase chain reaction showed significant downregulation of expression of auxin receptor–related genes, which is the TIR1/AFB family of F-box proteins including AFB1, AFB2, AFB3, AFB5, and TIR1. Therefore, the present study suggests that AgNPs have toxicity to the model plant A. thaliana as shown by inhibition of root gravitropism along with a reduction in auxin accumulation and expression of auxin receptors. Environ Toxicol Chem 2017;36:2773–2780.
Modelling lockdown measures in epidemic outbreaks using selective socio-economic containment with uncertainty. After the introduction of drastic containment measures aimed at stopping the epidemic contagion from SARS-CoV2, many governments have adopted a strategy based on a periodic relaxation of such measures in the face of a severe economic crisis caused by lockdowns. Assessing the impact of such openings in relation to the risk of a resumption of the spread of the disease is an extremely difficult problem due to the many unknowns concerning the actual number of people infected, the actual reproduction number and infection fatality rate of the disease. In this work, starting from a SEIRD compartmental model with a social structure based on the age of individuals and stochastic inputs that account for data uncertainty, the effects of containment measures are introduced via an optimal control problem dependent on specific social activities, such as home, work, school, etc. Through a short time horizon approximation, we derive models with multiple feedback controls depending on social activities that allow us to assess the impact of selective relaxation of containment measures in the presence of uncertain data. After analyzing the effects of the various controls, results from different scenarios concerning the first wave of the epidemic in some major countries, including Germany, France, Italy, Spain, the United Kingdom and the United States, are presented and discussed. Specific contact patterns in the home, work, school and other locations have been considered for each country. Numerical simulations show that a careful strategy of progressive relaxation of containment measures, such as that adopted by some governments, may be able to keep the epidemic under control by restarting various productive activities.
Reconfiguring or reproducing intra-professional boundaries? Specialist expertise, generalist knowledge and the 'modernization' of the medical workforce. Efforts to 'modernize' the clinical workforce of the English National Health Service have sought to reconfigure the responsibilities of professional groups in pursuit of more effective, joined-up service provision. Such efforts have met resistance from professions eager to protect their jurisdictions, deploying legitimacy claims familiar from the insights of the sociology of professions. Yet to date few studies of professional boundaries have grounded these insights in the specific context of policy challenges to the inter- and intra-professional division of labour, in relation to the medical profession and other health-related occupations. In this paper we address this gap by considering the experience of newly instituted general practitioners with a special interest (GPSIs) in genetics, introduced to improve genetics knowledge and practice in primary care. Using qualitative data from four comparative case studies, we discuss how an established intra-professional division of labour within medicine-between clinical geneticists and general practitioners-was opened, negotiated and reclosed in these sites. We discuss the contrasting attitudes towards the nature of genetics knowledge and its application of GPSIs and geneticists, and how these were used to advance conflicting visions of what the nascent GPSI role should involve. In particular, we show how the claims to knowledge of geneticists and GPSIs interacted with wider policy pressures to produce a rather more conservative redistribution of power and responsibility across the intra-professional boundary than the rhetoric of modernization might suggest.
Web-based resource management tools for clinical trials - Can a technology-enabled platform facilitate acquisition of resources?. Speed to market has become the de facto theme when addressing issues surrounding R&D productivity and return on investment for the pharmaceutical, biotechnology or medical device company (that is, sponsors). The industry is now facing challenges to its ability (and willingness) to quickly address the surge in developments delivered by new methods of high-throughput screening such as combinatorial chemistry, high speed data mining of the genome and the development of new polymers and biomaterials. To some extent, clinical trial sponsors have taken notice of the improvements in speed and efficiency offered by using Internet technology for electronic collection of trial data and recruitment of subjects. Another area of the clinical trial process where significant gains in efficiency and lower costs have been achieved is the process of resourcing and assembling the study monitoring team.
The management and application of soil microbial resources and the perspectives of soil microbiology. Soil is one of the main reservoirs of microorganisms on the planet and soil borne microorganisms are one of the earth's greatest sources of biodiversity. Soil microorganisms play an irreplaceable role in maintaining soil health and quality, contain tremendous economic values in agriculture, chemical, industrial and pharmaceutical industries, and in addition have great potentials in alleviating environmental crises such as global warming and loss of biodiversity. Therefore, the linkage between soil microdiversity and their ecological services, and the comprehensive management of soil microbial resources are considered necessary to maintain the stability of terrestrial ecosystems and to strengthen ecosystems productivity. Herein, we reviewed the improved techniques for detecting and monitoring soil microbes and their applications as a sustainable resource in many areas, predominantly in the enhancement and conservation of soil fertility, in the elimination and regulation of soil obstacles, and in the remediation and control of soil contamination. The field of soil microbiology is continually advancing, and may be generally divided into three sub-disciplines in the near future: soil microbial systematology, soil microbial processology and soil microbial ergology. Soil microbial systematology is to study taxonomy, diversity, phylogenetic relationships and biogeography of soil microorganisms, mainly including two aspects: (1) to establish soil microbial germplasm bank through traditional methods i. e. isolation and pure culture of microbes; and (2) to establish soil microbial genetic information bank through molecular biology techniques. These two sides are combined and provide the basis for the preservation, development and utilization of soil microbial resources. Soil microbial processology, taking microorganisms activities as subjects, is to study microbial metabolic processes, material transformation, energy transfer and information exchange in soils. Physiological processes, biochemical processes and ecological behavior processes are involved in this component. Furthermore the complexity of interactions in the soil, including interactions between microorganisms and interactions between microorganisms and plants or animals needs to be addressed in investigations of soil microbial processology. Soil microbial ergology aims at exploring ecological services of soil microorganisms in terrestrial ecosystems, obtaining knowledge in the coupling of soil microbial diversity and soil ecological functions, and predicting the responses of soil microbes to the environmental changes, and finally regulating soil ecological services actively. This field aims to answer the questions regarding the roles of soil microbes play in driving earth' s biogeochemical cycles, how to maintain and enhance soil fertility and productivity, how to participate in the maintenance of ecological stability when meeting disturbance, and how to restore or rebuild ecosystem services in degraded ecosystems and in contaminated soils. However, considering the impressively large microbial diversity and the highly heterogeneous environment observed in soils, complete description or sequencing of soil microorganisms is virtually impossible with the current technologies, thus the innovation of improved techniques will be another study frontier. With the help of biogeography and bioinformatics, decoding soil ecological functions of specific genes and applying them in the dark aspects of ecosystems will be a major challenge for future work.
Adaptive Error Curve Learning Ensemble Model for Improving Energy Consumption Forecasting. Despite the advancement within the last decades in the field of smart grids, energy consumption forecasting utilizing the metrological features is still challenging. This paper proposes a genetic algorithm-based adaptive error curve learning ensemble (GA-ECLE) model. The proposed technique copes with the stochastic variations of improving energy consumption forecasting using a machine learning-based ensembled approach. A modified ensemble model based on a utilizing error of model as a feature is used to improve the forecast accuracy. This approach combines three models, namely Cat-Boost (CB), Gradient Boost (GB), and Multilayer Perceptron (MLP). The ensembled CB-GB-MLP model s inner mechanism consists of generating a meta-data from Gradient Boosting and CatBoostmodels to compute the final predictions using the Multilayer Perceptron network. A genetic algorithm is used to obtain the optimal features to be used for the model. To prove the proposed model s effectiveness, we have used a four-phase technique using Jeju island s real energy consumption data. In the first phase, we have obtained the results by applying the CB-GB-MLP model. In the second phase, we have utilized a GA-ensembled model with optimal features. The third phase is for the comparison of the energy forecasting result with the proposed ECL-based model. The fourth stage is the final stage,where we have applied the GA-ECLE model. We obtained a mean absolute error of 3.05, and a root mean square error of 5.05. Extensive experimental results are provided, demonstrating the superiority of the proposed GA-ECLE model over traditional ensemble models.
Microgeographic population structuring of Aedes aegypti (Diptera: Culicidae). Aedes aegypti is one of the species most favored by changes in the environment caused by urbanization. Its abundance increases rapidly in the face of such changes, increasing the risk of disease transmission. Previous studies have shown that mosquito species that have adapted to anthropogenic environmental changes benefit from urbanization and undergo population expansion. In light of this, we used microsatellite markers to explore how urbanization processes may be modulating Ae. aegypti populations collected from three areas with different levels of urbanization in the city of São Paulo, Brazil. Specimens were collected at eleven sites in three areas with different degrees of urbanization in the city of São Paulo: conserved, intermediate and urbanized. Ten microsatellite loci were used to characterize the populations from these areas genetically. Our findings suggest that as urbanized areas grow and the human population density in these areas increases, Ae. aegypti populations undergo a major population expansion, which can probably be attributed to the species' adaptability to anthropogenic environmental changes. Our findings reveal a robust association between, on the one hand, urbanization processes and densification of the human population and, on the other, Ae. aegypti population structure patterns and population expansion. This indicates that this species benefits from anthropogenic effects, which are intensified by migration of the human population from rural to urban areas, increasing the risk of epidemics and disease transmission to an ever-increasing number of people.
Best management practices in counting urban black bears. DNA-based capture-mark-recapture (CMR) techniques are commonly used to obtain population parameters of black bears (Ursus americanus) in rural and wildland landscapes; however, these techniques have not been implemented in urban clusters (i.e., 2,500 to 50,000 residents). Black bears can readily habituate to urban clusters, and wildlife managers need to monitor and manage these urban bear populations. We modified DNAbased CMR for black bear using hair-snares to take into account the small home ranges of urban bears, urban bear behavior, and human safety within Mammoth Lakes, California, USA. We conducted this study for 3 field seasons in 2010, 2011, and 2012 from June to July. Each field season, we implemented a CMR with 6 encounter occasions, each 7 days in length. We used the traditional corral hair-snare design modified for human safety and chose multiple non-consumable and minimally consumable lure types to prevent food conditioning and a trap-happy response. In 2012, we also tested 3 additional hair-snare designs more appropriate for urban areas: natural rub, haphazard-wire snare, and tennis ball snare. In 2010, we collected an insufficient number of hair samples for CMR by putting hair-snares in the periphery of the urban cluster, which we call the urban-wildland interface. However, in 2011 and 2012, when we put hair-snares in the city center as well as the surrounding urban-wildlife interface and increased hair-snare density, we obtained a sufficient number of hair samples to estimate population density using closed capture CMR models. These adjustments to hairsnaring study design in urban areas helped increase capture and recapture rates to be similar to our wildland area. To achieve high capture rates using hair-snares in the urban area, we put out hair-snares at a density approximately 4 times greater than in our wildland study area and distributed them throughout the entire urban area, and not just on the urban-wildlife interface. In addition, setting hair-snares near anthropogenic features used by bears in urban areas (e.g., culverts, utility poles, dumpsters) and adding spent cooking oil to lures also increased our capture rate. Finally, the corral hair-snare had the highest capture rates of our 4 hair-snare designs. After adapting a study design for hair-snaring wildland bears, our methods were efficient for urban areas, having high capture and recapture rates (>0.30) and good precision for abundance estimates (coefficient of variation < 0.2), while maintaining human safety.
A location-routing problem with market competition for designing inland port urban delivery network. To effectively design an inland port urban delivery network for a logistics company, a nonlinear integer programming model for the location-routing problem with market competition (LRPMC) is presented. This problem seeks to construct an efficient logistics network to provide flexible and high quality delivery service for customers, so as to minimize operation cost, and maximize market shares. The logistics company can simultaneously provide two flexible delivery services: home delivery and customer pickup, and its market shares captured can be deduced from the patron behavior in competitive market. To solve the model, a hybrid heuristic algorithm combining genetic algorithm and local search is proposed. Based on the computational performances of real-world instance, the results show the proposed model formulation and heuristic approach are effective.
Occupational toxicology of nickel and nickel compounds. Nickel and nickel compounds are widely used in industry. The high consumption of nickel products inevitably leads to occupational and environmental pollution. In occupational settings, exposure to nickel and nickel compounds occurs primarily during nickel refining, electroplating, and welding. The most common airborne exposures to nickel in the workplace are to insoluble nickel species, such as metallic nickel, nickel sulfide, and nickel oxides from dusts and fumes. The chemical and physical properties of nickel and nickel compounds strongly influence their bioavailability and toxicity. The lung and the skin are the principal target organs upon occupational exposure. inhalation exposure is a primary route for nickel-induced toxicity in the workplace. The most important adverse health effects due to occupational exposure to nickel and its compounds are skin allergies, lung fibrosis, and lung cancer. The exact mechanisms of nickel-induced carcinogenesis are not clear. This review summarizes the current knowledge on occupational toxicology of nickel and its compounds. The subtopics include: chemical and physical properties, uses, occupational exposures, occupational exposure limits, toxicokinetics, biological monitoring, acute toxicity, chronic toxicity, genotoxicity, reproductive toxicity, carcinogenicity, molecular mechanisms of carcinogenesis, and gaps in knowledge.
Evidence of two mechanisms involved in Bacillus thuringiensis israelensis decreased toxicity against mosquito larvae: Genome dynamic and toxins stability. Biopesticides based on Bacillus thuringiensis israelensis are the most used and most successful around the world. This bacterium is characterized by a dynamic genome able to win or lose genetic materials which leads to a decrease in its effectiveness. The detection of such phenomena is of great importance to monitor the stability of B. thuringiensis strains in industrial production processes of biopesticides. New local B. thuringiensis israelensis isolates were investigated. They present variable levels of delta-endotoxins production and insecticidal activities against Aedes aegypti larvae. Searching on the origin of this variability, molecular and biochemical analyses were performed. The obtained results describe two main reasons of the decrease of B. thuringiensis israelensis insecticidal activity. The first reason was the deletion of cry4Aa and cry10Aa genes from the 128-kb pBtoxis plasmid as evidenced in three strains (BLB124, BLB199 and BLB506) among five. The second was the early degradation of Cry toxins by proteases in larvae midgut mainly due to some amino acids substitutions evidenced in Cry4Ba and Cry11Aa δ-endotoxins detected in BLB356. Before biological treatment based on B. thuringiensis israelensis, the studies of microflore in each ecosystem have a great importance to succeed pest management programs.
Multiple evolutionary processes drive the patterns of genetic differentiation in a forest tree species complex. Forest trees frequently form species complexes, complicating taxonomic classification and gene pool management. This is certainly the case in Eucalyptus, and well exemplified by the Eucalyptus globulus complex. This ecologically and economically significant complex comprises four taxa (sspp. bicostata, globulus, maidenii, pseudoglobulus) that are geographically and morphologically distinct, but linked by extensive "intergrade" populations. To resolve their genetic affinities, nine microsatellites were used to genotype 1200 trees from throughout the natural range of the complex in Australia, representing 33 morphological core and intergrade populations. There was significant spatial genetic structure (FST = 0.10), but variation was continuous. High genetic diversity in southern ssp. maidenii indicates that this region is the center of origin. Genetic diversity decreases and population differentiation increases with distance from this area, suggesting that drift is a major evolutionary process. Many of the intergrade populations, along with other populations morphologically classified as ssp. pseudoglobulus or ssp. globulus, belong to a "cryptic genetic entity" that is genetically and geographically intermediate between core ssp. bicostata, ssp. maidenii, and ssp. globulus. Geography, rather than morphology, therefore, is the best predictor of overall genetic affinities within the complex and should be used to classify germplasm into management units for conservation and breeding purposes. Forest trees frequently form species complexes, complicating taxonomic classification, and gene pool management. Here, we resolve the patterns of genetic variation in the ecologically and economically significant Eucalyptus globulus species complex, and the evolutionary processes that have shaped this variation. We identify a cryptic genetic entity of diverse morphology, and show that geography, rather than morphology, is the best predictor of overall genetic affinities within the complex.
Toxicity, of extracts of barley kernels inoculated with Fusarium spp. to Artemia salina. Toxicity to A. salina, of the Fusarium metabolites: deoxynivalenol (DON), its acetylated derivatives (3- and 15-AcDON), zearalenone (ZON), neosolaniol (NEO), nivalenol (NIV), T-2, HT-2 toxins, has been examined and compared with toxicity of extracts of barley kernels (8 cultivars and 4 lines) inoculated with Fusarium culmorum, F. graminearum and F. sporotrichioides respectively. Estimated LC 50 values were expressed as relative toxicity (RT) in mg DON/kg for samples inoculated with F. culmorum, F. graminearum or in mg T-2/kg for F. sporotrichioides inoculations. Toxicity of extracts of the same genotype/line kernels was compared among different pathogens used for inoculation and differences in Fusarium head blight susceptibility of different genotypes/lines inoculated with the same Fusarium strain were found. Significant correlation between toxicity of extracts (LC 50, RT) and toxic metabolites concentration was found ( {Mathematical expression}; P = 0.01). Bioassays with A. Salina offer a fast, easy and inexpensive method to examine cereal genotypes susceptibility to Fusarium head blight and mycotoxins accumulation in kernels.
Prevalence of Ciprofloxacin resistance among gram-negative bacilli at a specialist hospital in Saudi Arabia. Background: Resistance to antimicrobials of different structural classes including fluoroquinolones has arisen in a multitude of bacterial species both in the community and the hospitals. This may complicate the therapeutic management of infections. Decreased susceptibility to fluoroquinolones arises mainly by singlestep mutations in the gyrA and parC genes, which encode the fluoroquinolones targets, the topoisomerase enzymes, conferring cross resistance to all fluoroquinolones. Accumulation of multiple mutations in several genes confers increasing level of resistance associated with clinical failure. However, even low level resistance can generate therapeutic failure. In 1998, some mobile elements with a potential for the horizontal transfer of the quinolone resistance genes were described. The loci which are responsible for this plasmid- mediated quinolone resistance, which have been designated as qnrA, qnrB and qnrS, have been identified in the Enterobacteriaceae species. Aim: To evaluate the susceptibility pattern of the isolates to various antibiotics and to know the prevalence rate of ciprofloxacin resistance in our hospital. Materials & Methods: A total of 916 gram-negative bacilli (GNB) were isolated from different clinical specimens over a period of nine months, were subjected to antibiotic susceptibility testing. Isolates with resistance or with a decreased susceptibility to ciprofloxacin (£20 mm) were then screened for their minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) by using the E-test. Results: Out of 916 GNB, 321 (35%) isolates were resistant to ciprofloxacin. The MIC of these isolates ranged from 4 to >32?g/ml. Conclusion: The resistance rate to ciprofloxacin was 35% in our study. Most of the ciprofloxacin resistant isolates were from urinary tract infections (UTI). The ciprofloxacin resistance was also closely associated with multi-drug resistance, thus limiting the treatment options. Ciprofloxacin resistance can be used as a general surrogate marker of multidrug resistance, thus limiting the already restricted treatment options. The considerably high MIC values for ciprofloxacin in this study reflected the extent of the treatment problems for these resistant isolates and a need for the continuous evaluation of the commonly used antibiotics.
Transcriptomic responses to silver nanoparticles in the freshwater unicellular eukaryote Tetrahymena thermophila. Currently, silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) are being increasingly used as biocides in various consumer products and if released in the environment they can affect non-target organisms. Therefore, understanding the toxicity mechanism is crucial for both the design of more efficient nano-antimicrobials and for the design of nanomaterials that are biologically and environmentally benign throughout their life-cycle. Here, the ciliate Tetrahymena thermophila was used to elucidate the mechanisms of action of AgNPs by analysing the gene expression profile by RNA-seq and the transcriptomic effects of AgNPs were compared to those induced by soluble silver salt, AgNO3. Exposure to AgNPs at sublethal concentrations for 24 h induced phagocytosis, transport pathways, response to oxidative stress, glutathione peroxidase activity, response to stimulus, oxidation-reduction, proteolysis, and nitrogen metabolism process. Based on gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), some biological processes appeared targets of both toxicants. In addition to many similarities in affected genes, some effects were triggered only by NPs, like phagocytosis, glutathione peroxidase activity, response to stimulus, protein phosphorylation and nitrogen metabolism process. This research provides evidence that AgNPs compared to AgNO3 at the same concentration of dissolved silver ions dysregulate a higher number of cellular pathways. These findings confirm that AgNPs can induce toxicity not only due to soluble silver ions released from the particles but also to particle intrinsic features.
An insight into practical solutions for electric vehicle charging in smart grid. The electrification of transportation has been developed to support energy efficiency and CO2 reduction. As a result, electric vehicles (EVs) have become more popular in the current transport system to create more efficient energy. In recent years, this increase in EVs as well as renewable energy resources (RERs) has led to a major issue for power system networks. This paper studies electrical vehicles (EVs) and their applications in the smart grid and provides practical solutions for EV charging strategies in a smart power system to overcome the issues associated with large-scale EV penetrations. The research first reviews the EV battery infrastructure and charging strategies and introduces the main impacts of uncontrolled charging on the power grid. Then, it provides a practical overview of the existing and future solutions to manage the large-scale integration of EVs into the network. The simulation results for two controlled strategies of maximum sensitivity selection (MSS) and genetic algorithm (GA) optimization are presented and reviewed. A comparative analysis was performed to prove the application and validity of the solution approaches. This also helps researchers with the application of the optimization approaches on EV charging strategies. These two algorithms were implemented on a modified IEEE 23 kV medium voltage distribution system with switched shunt capacitors (SSCs) and a low voltage residential network, including EVs and nonlinear EV battery chargers.
Extreme Learning Machine-Based Thermal Model for Lithium-Ion Batteries of Electric Vehicles under External Short Circuit. External short circuit (ESC) of lithium-ion batteries is one of the common and severe electrical failures in electric vehicles. In this study, a novel thermal model is developed to capture the temperature behavior of batteries under ESC conditions. Experiments were systematically performed under different battery initial state of charge and ambient temperatures. Based on the experimental results, we employed an extreme learning machine (ELM)-based thermal (ELMT) model to depict battery temperature behavior under ESC, where a lumped-state thermal model was used to replace the activation function of conventional ELMs. To demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed model, we compared the ELMT model with a multi-lumped-state thermal (MLT) model parameterized by the genetic algorithm using the experimental data from various sets of battery cells. It is shown that the ELMT model can achieve higher computational efficiency than the MLT model and better fitting and prediction accuracy, where the average root mean squared error (RMSE) of the fitting is 0.65 °C for the ELMT model and 3.95 °C for the MLT model, and the RMES of the prediction under new data set is 3.97 °C for the ELMT model and 6.11 °C for the MLT model.
Two-stage discrete-continuous multi-objective load optimization: An industrial consumer utility approach to demand response. In the wake of today's highly dynamic and competitive energy markets, optimal dispatching of energy sources requires effective demand responsiveness. Suppliers have adopted a dynamic pricing strategy in efforts to control the downstream demand. This method however requires consumer awareness, flexibility, and timely responsiveness. While residential activities are more flexible and schedulable, larger commercial consumers remain an obstacle due to the impacts on industrial performance. This paper combines methods from quadratic, stochastic, and evolutionary programming with multi-objective optimization and continuous simulation, to propose a two-stage discrete-continuous multi-objective load optimization (DiCoMoLoOp) autonomous approach for industrial consumer demand response (DR). Stage 1 defines discrete-event load shifting targets. Accordingly, controllable loads are continuously optimized in stage 2 while considering the consumer's utility. Utility functions, which measure the loads’ time value to the consumer, are derived and weights are assigned through an analytical hierarchy process (AHP). The method is demonstrated for an industrial building model using real data. The proposed method integrates with building energy management system and solves in real-time with autonomous and instantaneous load shifting in the hour-ahead energy price (HAP) market. The simulation shows the occasional existence of multiple load management options on the Pareto frontier. Finally, the computed savings, based on the simulation analysis with real consumption, climate, and price data, ranged from modest to considerable amounts depending on the consumer's solution preference.
Preparation and culture of precision-cut organ slices from human and animal. 1. Human and animal precision-cut organ slices are being widely used to obtain drug metabolism and toxicity profiles in vitro. These data are then used to predict what might be seen in human patients. The accuracy of this prediction and extrapolation of the findings based on human or animal in vitro systems to the findings that occur in vivo is dependent on both the quality of the tissue itself and the quality of the in vitro system. 2. The quality of human organs used in research is dependent on procurement methods, warm ischaemia time, preservation solutions, cold ischaemia time, and donor-specific factors. It is important to confirm that the organs being used are highly viable and fully functional before using them in scientific studies. 3. The optimal preparation and incubation of organ slices is also essential in maintaining slice viability and function. It is important to prepare the slices in a cold preservation solution, to prepare the slices at a correct thickness, and to incubate the slices in a system where the slice rotates in out of the oxygen atmosphere and medium. 4. Meeting the criteria outlined here will lead to successful organ slice cultures for investigating drug-induced mechanisms and organ-specific toxicity.
Dynamics of geosmin-producing bacteria in a full-scale saltwater recirculated aquaculture system. Regular monitoring of the microbiome in recirculated aquaculture systems will allow the farmer to link water quality parameters to subsequent fish performance and will function as a tool for early identification of microbial conditions that could lead to impaired fish health. Microbial communities were monitored in different compartments of a commercial full-scale, land-based saltwater RAS for production of Atlantic salmon during 9 months. The microbial communities revealed a unique composition in the production tanks and moving bed biofilters, as compared to the other investigated compartments. The fixed bed compartment had a higher stability in the microbial community over time, relative to the moving bed biofilter compartment. Changes of the operation of the facility (replenishment of brackish water to seawater) caused an immediate shift in the microbial populations. Potential geosmin producers (bacteria harbouring the functional gene for geosmin synthetase geoA) were dominated by Sorangium, Actinomycetales and Myxococcales, but unidentified microorganisms harbouring the geoA gene were also present. The biofilters had the highest numbers of potential geosmin producers, but their presence did not co-vary with the levels of geosmin. This suggest that an observed period with high levels geosmin were due to a change in activity, rather than an increase in cell numbers. Our results provide new insight into the diversity of microbiota in RAS and suggest that monitoring of microbial communities in the aquaculture production may provide a tool for future microbial management to ensure stability in RAS performance.
High-speed detection of emergent market clustering via an unsupervised parallel genetic algorithm. We implement a master-slave parallel genetic algorithm with a bespoke log-likelihood fitness function to identify emergent clusters within price evolutions. We use graphics processing units (GPUs) to implement a parallel genetic algorithm and visualise the results using disjoint minimal spanning trees. We demonstrate that our GPU parallel genetic algorithm, implemented on a commercially available general purpose GPU, is able to recover stock clusters in sub-second speed, based on a subset of stocks in the South African market. This approach represents a pragmatic choice for low-cost, scalable parallel computing and is significantly faster than a prototype serial implementation in an optimised C-based fourth-generation programming language, although the results are not directly comparable because of compiler differences. Combined with fast online intraday correlation matrix estimation from high frequency data for cluster identification, the proposed implementation offers cost-effective, near-real-time risk assessment for financial practitioners.
Exertional heat stroke and susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia in an athlete: Evidence for a link?. Objective: To describe the possible association (pathophysiologic and clinical features) between exertional heat stroke (EHS) and malignant hyperthermia (MH). Background: Both EHS and MH are acute and lifethreatening disorders. It has repeatedly been shown that EHS can occur in well-trained patients with known MH-associated mutation in the RYR1 gene in the absence of any extreme environmental conditions or extreme physical activity, thereby supporting a possible link between EHS and MH. In this case, a highly trained 30-year-old male athlete suddenly collapsed while running. He had initial hyperthermia (40.28C) and progressive multiple organ failure requiring medical management in an intensive care unit. After he recovered completely, a maximal exercise test was performed and showed an obvious abnormality of oxidative metabolism in muscle; genetic analysis of the RYR1 gene identified a heterozygous missense variation p.K1393R. Consequently, the athlete was given appropriate information and allowed to progressively return to sport competition. Differential Diagnosis: Doping, use of drugs and toxic agents, exercise-associated hyponatremia, exertional heat illness. Treatment: Initial management started with the basic resuscitative guidelines of airway, breathing, and circulation (intubation). Cooling, administration of fresh frozen plasma, and intensive rehydration resulted in improvement. Uniqueness: To our knowledge, ours is the first description of this MH mutation (p.K1393R) in the RYR1 gene that was associated with exertional rhabdomyolysis involving a dramatic impairment of oxidative metabolism in muscle. Conclusions: Common features are shared by EHS and MH. Careful attention must therefore be paid to athletes who experience EHS, especially in temperate climates or when there are no other predisposing factors.
Orally administered nano-polystyrene caused vitellogenin alteration and oxidative stress in the red swamp crayfish (Procambarus clarkii). Nanoplastics (≤100 nm) represent the smallest fraction of plastic litter and may result in the aquatic environment as degradation products of larger plastic material. To date, few studies focused on the interactions of micro- and nanoplastics with freshwater Decapoda. The red swamp crayfish (Procambarus clarkii, Girard, 1852) is an invasive species able to tolerate highly perturbed environments. As a benthic opportunistic feeder, this species may be susceptible to plastic ingestion. In this study, adult P. clarkii, at intermolt stage, were exposed to 100 μg of 100 nm carboxylated polystyrene nanoparticles (PS NPs) through diet in a 72 h acute toxicity test. An integrated approach was conceived to assess the biological effects of PS NPs, by analyzing both transcriptomic and physiological responses. Total hemocyte counts, basal and total phenoloxidase activities, glycemia and total protein concentration were investigated in crayfish hemolymph at 0 h, 24 h, 48 h and 72 h from PS NPs administration to evaluate general stress response over time. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in the hemocytes and hepatopancreas were analyzed to ascertain the response of crayfish to PS NP challenge after 72 h. At a physiological level, crayfish were able to compensate for the induced stress, not exceeding generic stress thresholds. The RNA-Sequencing analysis revealed the altered expression of few genes involved in immune response, oxidative stress, gene transcription and translation, protein degradation, lipid metabolism, oxygen demand, and reproduction after PS NPs exposure. This study suggests that a low concentration of PS NPs may induce mild stress in crayfish, and sheds light on molecular pathways possibly involved in nanoplastic toxicity.
BrAPI - An application programming interface for plant breeding applications. Modern genomic breeding methods rely heavily on very large amounts of phenotyping and genotyping data, presenting new challenges in effective data management and integration. Recently, the size and complexity of datasets have increased significantly, with the result that data are often stored on multiple systems. As analyses of interest increasingly require aggregation of datasets from diverse sources, data exchange between disparate systems becomes a challenge. Results: To facilitate interoperability among breeding applications, we present the public plant Breeding Application Programming Interface (BrAPI). BrAPI is a standardized web service API specification. The development of BrAPI is a collaborative, community-based initiative involving a growing global community of over a hundred participants representing several dozen institutions and companies. Development of such a standard is recognized as critical to a number of important large breeding system initiatives as a foundational technology. The focus of the first version of the API is on providing services for connecting systems and retrieving basic breeding data including germplasm, study, observation, and marker data. A number of BrAPI-enabled applications, termed BrAPPs, have been written, that take advantage of the emerging support of BrAPI by many databases. Availability and implementation: More information on BrAPI, including links to the specification, test suites, BrAPPs, and sample implementations is available at . The BrAPI specification and the developer tools are provided as free and open source.
Seasonal variation characteristics of microbial communities in the sediments of urban black-odorous river in lower reaches of Shaying river. In order to study the seasonal variation characteristics of microbial communities in the sediments of the black-odorous river located in lower reaches of Shaying River, high-throughput sequencing approach was used to se-quence the 16S rDNA gene of surficial sediments from the Zhongqing River and the Qiyu River. The results showed that microbial species diversity in urban black-odorous river was not high and changed with different seasons: spring > winter ≥ summer > autumn. The redundancy analysis revealed that the microbial diversity was significantly affected by the season and pH of the sediment. By analyzing the microbial community structure in sediment at phylum level, it is found that seasons, temperature, TN and SOM have a great impact on the microbial population. The relative abundance of dominant bacteria such as Proteobacteria, Firmicutes, Chloroflexi, Verrucomicrobia, Bacteroidetes and Acti-nobacteria differed at the seasonal level. The relative abundances of Firmicutes, Chloroflexi, Actinobacteria and Acidobacteria in spring were relatively high, while Proteobacteria was relatively low. The relative abundances of Ver-rucomicrobia and Bacteroidetes in autumn dramatically decreased, but Proteobacteria increased significantly compared with other seasons. A total of 16 sulfate-reducing bacteria genus were detected in all samples, among which Desulfo-prunum was the most abundant. SRB was the most abundant in spring with the highest relative abundance. SRB was SO2¡ 4 positively correlated with, TN, SOM, Cl– etc. The above results provide a reference for the selection of control time to effectively avoid the generation of black and odorous substances in rivers.
Ethylene signaling pathway. The structural simplicity of the plant hormone ethylene contrasts with its dramatic effects in various developmental processes, as well as in the cellular processes that ethylene initiates in response to a diversity of environmental signals. A single well-conserved signaling cascade mediates this broad spectrum of responses. Ethylene is perceived by a family of two-component histidine kinase receptors that become inactivated upon ethylene binding. In the absence of the hormone, the receptors activate CTR1, a negative regulator of ethylene responses. Sequence similarity between CTR1 and the Raf protein kinases implies involvement of a mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade in this signaling pathway. The protein EIN2 acts downstream of CTR1 and the possible kinase cascade. Although the biochemical function of EIN2 is not understood, its critical role is manifested by the complete ethylene insensitivity of EIN2 loss-of-function mutants. Downstream of EIN2, a family of plant-specific EIN3-like transcription factors mediate ethylene responses. The regulation of EIN3 stability by ethylene is accomplished by F-box-containing proteins that participate in the formation of a SKP1/cullin/F-box complex that targets proteins for degradation by the proteasome. A large number of ethylene-regulated genes have been identified, including the APETALA2 domain-containing transcription factor genes ERF1 and EDF1 to 4, which suggests the participation of a transcriptional cascade in the ethylene response. The differential regulation of some components of this complex nuclear cascade by other signaling pathways provides a possible mechanism for interaction and signal integration. As new points of intersection with other pathways and additional participants in the pathway are identified, the Connections Map will be updated to include this new information.
Managing plant symbiosis: Fungal endophyte genotype alters plant community composition. Understanding the extent to which plant genotype influences community composition has important conservation and management value. Here, we add a new layer to current research by testing whether genotypes of plant symbionts influence plant community composition. Tall fescue grass Lolium arundinaceum is planted worldwide for forage, turf, and soil stabilization, has invaded native communities, and commonly hosts the foliar endophytic fungus, Neotyphodium coenophialum. We quantified vegetation development over a 6-year period in replicated field plots of the two most commonly introduced genotypes of the endophyte (KY-31, AR-542) in two tall fescue cultivars (Georgia-5, Jesup). The KY-31 endophyte produces ergot alkaloids toxic to mammalian herbivores, while AR-542 lacks ergots. We expected that the KY-31 endophyte would promote tall fescue dominance by altering mammalian herbivory, that endophyte-free plots would support the highest plant diversity, and that AR-542 endophyte would show intermediate effects. Plots with the KY-31 endophyte supported ∼10% fewer plant species than endophyte-free or AR-542 plots. KY-31 also reduced graminoids and forbs more strongly than AR-542, with the greatest response in Georgia-5. Endophyte genotype did not significantly alter the prevalence of tall fescue; however, absence of the endophyte reduced the biomass of Georgia-5. Both plant and endophyte genetic identity influenced the persistence of endophyte symbiosis. In Georgia-5, the frequency of AR-542 declined more through time than did KY-31; these effects were reversed in Jesup. Endophyte presence reduced herbivory by mammals (voles), but endophyte genotype had no effect, suggesting that voles were not driving endophyte genotype-mediated changes in plant composition, and that other compounds besides ergot alkaloids influenced vole feeding. Synthesis and applications. When endophyte-symbiotic plants are desired, the AR-542 endophyte in the Georgia-5 background would achieve higher native plant diversity and reduce tall fescue invasion of nearby areas. Conversely, Jesup is recommended for increased tall fescue persistence, as both biomass and reproduction exceeded Georgia-5. In summary, our results demonstrate that, like plant genotype, symbiont genotype can also alter vegetation dynamics and plant composition and should be considered when managing for conservation, restoration, forage, turf, re-vegetation or soil stabilization.
Is it possible to understand a book missing a quarter of the letters? Unveiling the belowground species richness of grasslands. Knowledge of species richness patterns in plant communities is biased toward its hidden belowground part and is derived only from the part visible aboveground. Studies on the relationship of the above- to belowground parts of plant communities suffer from the lack of a consistent and uniform approach to assess their taxonomic composition, particularly in species-rich ecosystems. This study described the proportion between above- and belowground parts of vegetation in three grassland types along with the environmental factors that affect them, using eDNA metabarcoding and an observer survey. The internal transcribed spacer 2 (ITS2) region was used to analyze the total plant richness in the soil and the aboveground “green” part of plant communities. Considering all samples, eDNA metabarcoding successfully assigned about 93% of taxa on the species level. Our findings support the notion that metabarcoding analysis of the belowground plant community revealed up to 66% higher species richness than was identified above the ground by a conventional vegetation survey. However, this difference decreases to about 25% when an eDNA-derived taxonomic assignment was applied for the aboveground part of phytocoenosis. We also found that the difference between the below- and aboveground parts of the plant community decreased with increased soil fertility. Finally, the management intensity was found to significantly influence species richness only in the aboveground part of vegetation with the belowground part of grassland remaining unaffected. Overall, since DNA-based metabarcoding and traditional vegetation surveys have limitations, their complementary use is recommended to obtain the most reliable vegetation description. However, it should be considered that metabarcoding analysis is destructive and may not be applicable in protected or private areas or on permanent research plots.
Articulating 'free, prior and informed consent' (FPIC) for engineered gene drives. Recent statements by United Nations bodies point to free, prior and informed consent (FPIC) as a potential requirement in the development of engineered gene drive applications. As a concept developed in the context of protecting Indigenous rights to self-determination in land development scenarios, FPIC would need to be extended to apply to the context of ecological editing. Without an explicit framework of application, FPIC could be interpreted as a narrowly framed process of community consultation focused on the social implications of technology, and award little formal or advisory power in decision-making to Indigenous peoples and local communities. In this paper, we argue for an articulation of FPIC that attends to issues of transparency, iterative community-scale consent, and shared power through co-development among Indigenous peoples, local communities, researchers and technology developers. In realizing a comprehensive FPIC process, researchers and developers have an opportunity to incorporate enhanced participation and social guidance mechanisms into the design, development and implementation of engineered gene drive applications.
Role of microorganisms in adaptation of agriculture crops to abiotic stresses. Increased incidences of abiotic and biotic stresses impacting productivity in principal crops are being witnessed all over the world. Extreme events like prolonged droughts, intense rains and flooding, heat waves and frost damages are likely to further increase in future due to climate change. A wide range of adaptations and mitigation strategies are required to cope with such impacts. Efficient resource management and crop/livestock improvement for evolving better breeds can help to overcome abiotic stresses to some extent. However, such strategies being long drawn and cost intensive, there is a need to develop simple and low cost biological methods for the management of abiotic stress, which can be used on short term basis. Microorganisms could play a significant role in this respect, if we can exploit their unique properties of tolerance to extremities, their ubiquity, genetic diversity, their interaction with crop plants and develop methods for their successful deployment in agriculture production. Besides influencing the physico-chemical properties of rhizospheric soil through production of exopolysaccharides and formation of biofilm, microorganisms can also influence higher plants response to abiotic stresses like drought, chilling injury, salinity, metal toxicity and high temperature, through different mechanisms like induction of osmo-protectants and heat shock proteins etc. in plant cells. Use of these microorganisms per se can alleviate stresses in crop plants thus opening a new and emerging application in agriculture. These microbes also provide excellent models for understanding the stress tolerance, adaptation and response mechanisms that can be subsequently engineered into crop plants to cope with climate change induced stresses.
Harmonic sources identification method in distribution network based on probability forecasting and harmonic power flow. Harmonic sources identification is needed when the information about the positions and number of harmonic sources in the network is insufficient. To solve this problem, a harmonic sources identification method is proposed. Sensitivity index is used firstly for the optimal placement of harmonic measurement devices. Then a method based on genetic algorithm (GA) and support vector machine (SVM) is used to classify the buses as suspected and non-suspected ones. GA is used for parameters optimization for SVM models. At last, harmonic power flow is performed to examine the accuracy of the predicted locations. To evaluate its reliability and effectiveness, the proposed method is applied to the modified IEEE 13-bus system. The evaluation results are very promising.
Battle against extinction: native fish management in the American West. These papers presented at a symposium at Death Valley National Monument, California, November 1988, provide an appraisal of the status and conservation biology of fishes in arid lands W of the Mississippi Valley, as well as considering ethical and political questions and the progress of management and conservation efforts. The 20 chapters, organized in seven sections, cover discovery and extinction of Western fishes; ichthyological exploration of the American West, 1915-1950; impacts of Green River poisoning on management of native fishes; the Desert Fishes Council; the legacy of the Devils Hole pupfish Cyprinodon diabolis; responsibility for desert fish; ethics, federal legislation and litigation; evolution of a cooperative recovery programme in the upper Colorado River Basin; conservation genetics and genic diversity; design of reserves; history and management of preserves and refuges; conservation of Mexican freshwater fishes; hatcheries; stream renovation as management techniques; conservation and management of short-lived cyprinodontoids; transplanting short-lived fishes; management toward recovery of razorback sucker Xyrauchen texanus; life history of four endangered lacustrine suckers (Catostomidae); ecology and management of Colorado squawfish Ptychocheilus lucius; and an epilogue on the enigma of endangered species. Seventeen of the chapters are abstracted separately (see 92L/10546-10562). -J.W.Cooper
Molecular and paleo-climatic data uncover the impact of an ancient bottleneck on the demographic history and contemporary genetic structure of endangered Pinus uliginosa. With the current rate of biodiversity loss, conservation management practices require a comprehensive understanding of eco-evolutionary relationships, history, and genetic structure of species. Assessments of genetic diversity are crucial, especially in rare, endemic, or threatened forest tree species with small and isolated populations, such as peat bog pine (Pinus uliginosa N.). Here, we used a novel approach, combining genetic diversity assessment, ecological niche modeling, and population demography inference to explore the complex history of a few remnant populations of this endangered pine. To asses the relative influence of isolation and fragmentation on genetic diversity in the taxonomic context, the patterns of genetic variation found in P. uliginosa were contrasted with those observed in its close relatives with much bigger distribution ranges and larger populations (Pinus sylvestris, Pinus mugo, and Pinus uncinata). We found a similar level of genetic diversity across the species at nuclear loci but contrasting patterns of variability distribution at chloroplast markers. We detected the signatures of an ancient genetic bottleneck dated at around 26 400 years ago, indicating a drastic reduction in the population size of P. uligionosa during the Last Glacial Maximum. In addition, we found substantial differentiation between current populations as a result of enhanced genetic drift during long-lasting isolation. The research suggests potential conservation management strategies for peat bog pine and emphasizes the importance of using complementary approaches for their successful development.
Performance evaluation and design for variable threshold alarm systems through semi-Markov process. In large industrial systems, alarm management is one of the most important issues to improve the safety and efficiency of systems in practice. Operators of such systems often have to deal with a numerous number of simultaneous alarms. Different kinds of thresholding or filtration are applied to decrease alarm nuisance and improve performance indices, such as Averaged Alarm Delay (ADD), Missed Alarm and False Alarm Rates (MAR and FAR). Among threshold-based approaches, variable thresholding methods are well-known for reducing the alarm nuisance and improving the performance of the alarm system. However, the literature suffers from the lack of an appropriate method to assess performance parameters of Variable Threshold Alarm Systems (VTASs). This study introduces two types of variable thresholding and proposes a novel approach for performance assessment of VTASs using Priority-AND gate and semi-Markov process. Application of semi-Markov process allows the proposed approach to consider industrial measurements with non-Gaussian distributions. In addition, the paper provides a genetic algorithm based optimized design process for optimal parameter setting to improve performance indices. The effectiveness of the proposed approach is illustrated via three numerical examples and through a comparison with previous studies.
Minority Pediatric Patients with Inflammatory Bowel Disease Demonstrate an Increased Length of Stay. Background: Genetic and other biological factors may lead to differences in disease behavior among children with inflammatory bowel disease of different races, which may be further modified by disparities in care delivery. Using the Kids’ Inpatient Database, we aimed to evaluate differences in the management of pediatric patients with inflammatory bowel disease by race, focusing on length of stay (LOS). Methods: We performed a cross-sectional analysis using 2000 to 2012 data from the Kids’ Inpatient Database, a nationally representative database. We identified pediatric patients (#18 years of age) with discharge diagnoses of Crohn’s disease (CD) or ulcerative colitis (UC). We used multivariable logistic regression to evaluate the relationship between race and LOS, controlling for age, payer status need for surgery, and year of admission. Results: We identified 27,295 hospitalizations for children with inflammatory bowel disease (62% CD and 38% UC), Compared with white patients with CD, black (adjusted odds ratio 1.37; 95% confidence interval, 1.22–1.53; P , 0.001) and Hispanic patients (adjusted odds ratio: 1.37; 95% confidence interval: 1.19–1.59; P , 0.001) with CD demonstrated increased odds of a LOS greater than the 75th percentile. When compared with white patients with UC, Hispanic patients also demonstrated increased odds of a LOS greater than the 75th percentile (adjusted odds ratio: 1.20; 95% confidence interval, 1.02–1.42, P ¼ 0.015). Conclusions: After controlling for age, year of admission, and clinical phenotypes, black and Hispanic patients with CD and Hispanic patients with UC had longer LOS than white patients. These may be due to differences in provider/hospital characteristics, socioeconomic differences, and/or differences in genetics and other biological factors (see Video Abstract, Supplemental Digital Content 1, ).
Features selection, data mining and finacial risk classification: a comparative study. The aim of this paper is to compare several predictive models that combine features selection techniques with data mining classifiers in the context of credit risk assessment in terms of accuracy, sensitivity and specificity statistics. The t-statistic, Battacharrayia statistic, the area between the receiver operating characteristic, Wilcoxon statistic, relative entropy, and genetic algorithms were used for the features selection task. The selected features are used to train the support vector machine (SVM) classifier, backpropagation neural network, radial basis function neural network, linear discriminant analysis and naive Bayes classifier. Results from three datasets using a 10-fold cross-validation technique showed that the SVM provides the best accuracy under all features selections techniques adopted in the study for all three datasets. Therefore, the SVM is an attractive classifier to be used in real applications for bankruptcy prediction in corporate finance and financial risk management in financial institutions. In addition, we found that our best results are superior to earlier studies on the same datasets.
Optimization of Variable-Current Charging Strategy Based on SOC Segmentation for Li-ion Battery. This paper presents a variable-current charging strategy of Li-ion batteries. Since the battery characteristics vary with state of charge (SOC), it is more reasonable to divide the charging process based on SOC than on cut off voltage. We find an optimal charging pattern of the proposed strategy by Non-dominated Sorting Genetic Algorithm-III (NSGA-III). The Second-order Thevenin model of battery is established to simulate the charging process. Verification experiments are performed and results show that the obtained charging pattern has a temperature and loss reduction of 2.9 °C and 0.5% compared with constant current-constant voltage (CC-CV) strategy under the same charging time and capacity.
Optimization of energy storage capacity for wind farm considering battery life and over-discharge. The increase of wind farm output transmitted to power grid brings challenges to its security and stability. Leading in energy storage system can make the wind farm output meeting the demand of expected output furthest and mitigating the affection due to the randomness of wind power. A method to optimize the energy storage capacity for wind farm is proposed, in which the minimum synthetical economic cost composed of three constituents, namely the operating cost converted from the loss of battery life due to the depth of discharge and the over-discharge, the penalty cost converted from the amount of the energy that does not meet the demand of expected output and the inherent cost of energy storage devices, is taken as the optimization objective, and the power, the capacity and the battery life are taken as constraints, and the optimized energy storage capacity is solved by genetic algorithm. Results of case study show that adopting the optimal capacity obtained by the proposed method not only a lower economic cost can be ensured, but also the fluctuation of wind farm output can be controlled within a smaller range. Besides, the relation among operating cost, penalty cost and inherent cost is analyzed and the analysis result shows that it is necessary to lead in the operating cost.
Transient heat transfer analysis in packed beds: Entropy generation model and multi-objective optimization. Due to the important role of the unsteady heat transfer process of packed beds in industrial production, the construction of the transient heat transfer model is of great significance for the operation and optimization. The present study performs a transient thermal analysis of packed bed, in which the convective heat transfer and conductive thermal resistance within the particles are considered simultaneously. A mathematical model is established of the total entropy generations (0−t) contributed by viscous dissipation and heat transfer; the influence of particle diameter, air flow rate, and pressure drop, is then investigated. Because of the time cost, these results present some different trends from the steady-state process. Furthermore, for a laboratory heat transfer system, with the aid of the genetic algorithm we adopt a multi-objective genetic algorithm model and modified expressions of the entropy generations are set as objective functions. Finally, optimal operational and structural parameters are obtained for different fan power settings. When the fan power is 300 W, the optimal particle diameter and inlet wind speed are 14 mm and 2.4 m/s, respectively. The results also suggest that the time cost is reduced with increasing fan power consumption.
Population diversity in oncology drug responses and implications to drug development. Cancer drug development is proceeding at a rapid pace, with drug approvals in oncology outpacing the other disease indications. With high population growth and economic development of Asian countries, access to cancer drugs becomes a paramount necessity. Approval of these drugs is dependent on establishing their safety and efficacy in populations living in these countries. Ethnic and racial differences in drug pharmacokinetics, or drug receptor sensitivities may lead to differences in drug responses between populations. These differences may be due to intrinsic or extrinsic factors, and understanding of the magnitude of these differences and their etiologies is important. One key pharmacogenetic reason for ethnic variability of drug response arises from the different allelic frequencies of polymorphic drug-metabolising enzyme genes, resulting in altered drug disposition. Using race or ethnicity as a “biomarker” for pharmacotherapeutics is fraught with issues as they are difficult to define scientifically, and are considered more social constructs. Nonetheless, studying the genetics of ethno-geographical variability of drug response will allow genetic biomarkers to be uncovered, which would greatly facilitate precision medicine, and should justify broadening the involvement and accrual of patients from global diverse populations during the early phases of drug development for an oncology drug.
Taxonomic and functional metagenomic analysis of anodic communities in two pilot-scale microbial fuel cells treating different industrial wastewaters. The combined processes of microbial biodegradation accompanied by extracellular electron transfer make microbial fuel cells (MFCs) a promising new technology for cost-effective and sustainable wastewater treatment. Although a number of microbial species that build biofilms on the anode surfaces of operating MFCs have been identified, studies on the metagenomics of entire electrogenic communities are limited. Here we present the results of whole-genome metagenomic analysis of electrochemically active robust anodic microbial communities, and their anaerobic digester (AD) sludge inocula, from two pilot-scale MFC bioreactors fed with different distillery wastewaters operated under ambient conditions in distinct climatic zones. Taxonomic analysis showed that Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes and Firmicutes were abundant in AD sludge from distinct climatic zones, and constituted the dominant core of the MFC microbiomes. Functional analysis revealed species involved in degradation of organic compounds commonly present in food industry wastewaters. Also, accumulation of methanogenic Archaea was observed in the electrogenic biofilms, suggesting a possibility for simultaneous electricity and biogas recovery from one integrated wastewater treatment system. Finally, we found a range of species within the anode communities possessing the capacity for extracellular electron transfer, both via direct contact and electron shuttles, and show differential distribution of bacterial groups on the carbon cloth and activated carbon granules of the anode surface. Overall, this study provides insights into structural shifts that occur in the transition from an AD sludge to an MFC microbial community and the metabolic potential of electrochemically active microbial populations with wastewater-treating MFCs.
Discordant patterns of genetic and phenotypic differentiation in five grasshopper species codistributed across a microreserve network. Conservation plans can be greatly improved when information on the evolutionary and demographic consequences of habitat fragmentation is available for several codistributed species. Here, we study spatial patterns of phenotypic and genetic variation among five grasshopper species that are codistributed across a network of microreserves but show remarkable differences in dispersal-related morphology (body size and wing length), degree of habitat specialization and extent of fragmentation of their respective habitats in the study region. In particular, we tested the hypothesis that species with preferences for highly fragmented microhabitats show stronger genetic and phenotypic structure than codistributed generalist taxa inhabiting a continuous matrix of suitable habitat. We also hypothesized a higher resemblance of spatial patterns of genetic and phenotypic variability among species that have experienced a higher degree of habitat fragmentation due to their more similar responses to the parallel large-scale destruction of their natural habitats. In partial agreement with our first hypothesis, we found that genetic structure, but not phenotypic differentiation, was higher in species linked to highly fragmented habitats. We did not find support for congruent patterns of phenotypic and genetic variability among any studied species, indicating that they show idiosyncratic evolutionary trajectories and distinctive demographic responses to habitat fragmentation across a common landscape. This suggests that conservation practices in networks of protected areas require detailed ecological and evolutionary information on target species to focus management efforts on those taxa that are more sensitive to the effects of habitat fragmentation.
Proanthocyanidins Alleviate Cadmium Stress in Industrial Hemp (Cannabis sativa L.). Industrial hemp (Cannabis sativa L.), an annual herbaceous cash crop, is widely used for the remediation of heavy metal-contaminated soils due to its short growth cycle, high tolerance, high biomass, and lack of susceptibility to transfer heavy metals into the human food chain. In this study, a significant increase in proanthocyanidins was found in Yunnan hemp no. 1 after cadmium stress. Proanthocyanidins are presumed to be a key secondary metabolite for cadmium stress mitigation. Therefore, to investigate the effect of proanthocyanidins on industrial hemp under cadmium stress, four experimental treatments were set up: normal environment, cadmium stress, proanthocyanidin treatment, and cadmium stress after pretreatment with proanthocyanidins. The phenotypes from the different treatments were compared. The experimental results showed that pretreatment with proanthocyanidins significantly alleviated cadmium toxicity in industrial hemp. The transcriptome and metabolome of industrial hemp were evaluated in the different treatments. Proanthocyanidin treatment and cadmium stress in industrial hemp mainly affected gene expression in metabolic pathways associated with glutathione metabolism, phenylpropanoids, and photosynthesis, which in turn altered the metabolite content in metabolic pathways of phenylalanine, vitamin metabolism, and carotenoid synthesis. The combined transcriptomic and metabolomic analysis revealed that proanthocyanidins mitigated cadmium toxicity by enhancing photosynthesis, secondary metabolite synthesis, and antioxidant synthesis. In addition, exogenous proanthocyanidins and cadmium ions acted simultaneously on EDS1 to induce the production of large amounts of salicylic acid in the plant. Finally, overexpression of CsANR and CsLAR, key genes for proanthocyanidins synthesis in industrial hemp, was established in Arabidopsis plants. The corresponding plants were subjected to cadmium stress, and the results showed that CsLAR transgenic plants were more tolerant to cadmium than the CsANR transgenic and wild-type Arabidopsis plants. The results showed that salicylic acid and jasmonic acid were increased in Arabidopsis overexpressing CsLAR compared to AT wild-type Arabidopsis, and levels of secondary metabolites were significantly higher in Arabidopsis overexpressing CsLAR than in AT wild-type Arabidopsis. These results revealed how proanthocyanidins alleviated cadmium stress and laid the foundation for breeding industrial hemp varieties with higher levels of proanthocyanidins and greater tolerance.
Amplicon-based assessment of bacterial diversity and community structure in three tropical forest soils in Kenya. Forest soils provide a multitude of habitats for diverse communities of bacteria. In this study, we selected three tropical forests in Kenya to determine the diversity and community structure of soil bacteria inhabiting these regions. Kakamega and Irangi are rainforests, whereas Gazi Bay harbors mangrove forests. The three natural forests occupy different altitudinal zones and differ in their environmental characteristics. Soil samples were collected from a total of 12 sites and soil physicochemical parameters for each sampling site were analyzed. We used an amplicon-based Illumina high-throughput sequencing approach. Total community DNA was extracted from individual samples using the phenol-chloroform method. The 16S ribosomal RNA gene segment spanning the V4 region was amplified using the Illumina MiSeq platform. Diversity indices, rarefaction curves, hierarchical clustering, principal component analysis (PCA), and non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) analyses were performed in R software. A total of 13,410 OTUs were observed at 97% sequence similarity. Bacterial communities were dominated by Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Firmicutes, Actinobacteria, and Acidobacteria in both rainforest and mangrove sampling sites. Alpha diversity indices and species richness were higher in Kakamega and Irangi rainforests compared to mangroves in Gazi Bay. The composition of bacterial communities within and between the three forests was also significantly differentiated (R = 0.559, p = 0.007). Clustering in both PCA and NMDS plots showed that each sampling site had a distinct bacterial community profile. The NMDS analysis also indicated that soil EC, sodium, sulfur, magnesium, boron, and manganese contributed significantly to the observed variation in the bacterial community structure. Overall, this study demonstrated the presence of diverse taxa and heterogeneous community structures of soil bacteria inhabiting three tropical forests of Kenya. Our results also indicated that variation in soil chemical parameters was the major driver of the observed bacterial diversity and community structure in these forests.
A symbolic network-based nonlinear theory for dynamical systems observability. When the state of the whole reaction network can be inferred by just measuring the dynamics of a limited set of nodes the system is said to be fully observable. However, as the number of all possible combinations of measured variables and time derivatives spanning the reconstructed state of the system exponentially increases with its dimension, the observability becomes a computationally prohibitive task. Our approach consists in computing the observability coefficients from a symbolic Jacobian matrix whose elements encode the linear, nonlinear polynomial or rational nature of the interaction among the variables. The novelty we introduce in this paper, required for treating large-dimensional systems, is to identify from the symbolic Jacobian matrix the minimal set of variables (together with their time derivatives) candidate to be measured for completing the state space reconstruction. Then symbolic observability coefficients are computed from the symbolic observability matrix. Our results are in agreement with the analytical computations, evidencing the correctness of our approach. Its application to efficiently exploring the dynamics of real world complex systems such as power grids, socioeconomic networks or biological networks is quite promising.
Mercury induced community tolerance in microbial biofilms is related to pollution gradients in a long-term polluted river. The net toxicity of different forms of mercury, in the long-term during their transformation processes, leads to the selection of resistant bacterial cells and this result in community tolerance which is pollution induced. Accordingly, based on profiles of a bacterial community structure, analysis of Hg resistant culturable bacteria and quantification of merA genes, we assessed development of pollution induced community tolerance in a mercury-polluted gradient in the Idrijca River. TTGE analysis did not show effects of mercury pollution to bacterial community diversity, while quantification of merA genes showed that merA genes can be correlated precisely (R2=0.83) with the total concentration of mercury in the biofilm microbial communities in the pollution gradient.
Development of a Distinct Microbial Community Upon First Season Crop Change in Soils of Long-Term Managed Maize and Rice Fields. The introduction of crop rotation regimes in paddy soils, for example, rice in combination with maize, implements the establishment of new paddy fields to compensate for reduced rice production on existing fields. To study responses of the soil and rhizosphere microbiota upon introduction of a new crop species into continuous cropping agroecosystems, we conducted experiments with soils from adjacent fields where rice and maize were grown successively for more than 30 years. In microcosm experiments, rice and maize plants were cultivated in both soils under the respective plant-required management regime, i.e., rice cultivation under flooded conditions and maize under non-flooded conditions. 16S rRNA gene and fungal ITS region amplicon analysis showed that the soil and rhizosphere microbiota was clearly distinct between soils after long-term rice/maize management. Upon change of the management regime, the bulk soil microbiota became different to both, the former microbial community in the soil and the community being characteristic for the respective type of long-term cropping. Nevertheless, the influence of the soil management history remained clearly visible besides the impact of the new management regime. Similar results were observed for the rhizosphere, though the combined effect of plant species and altered management was even more effective in this compartment compared to the bulk soil. The newly introduced crop plant did not take over characteristic members of the rhizosphere microbiota of the previously cultivated crop; instead, some previously rare taxa became enriched. Thus, the formerly grown crop species did not directly affect the recruitment of microorganisms in the rhizosphere of the following crop species. Further, the results show that the rhizosphere and bulk soil microbiota do not develop straight toward the specific microbiota that is characteristic for a continuous cropping system, but reach a distinct stage upon introduction of a new crop species and new management practices.
The protective effects of selenium on chronic ammonia toxicity in yellow catfish (Pelteobagrus fulvidraco). Ammonia is toxic to most fish, and its negative effects can be eliminated by nutritional manipulation. In this study, triplicate groups of yellow catfish (0.58 ± 0.03 g) were fed diets supplemented with 0, 0.30 and 0.60 mg selenium (Se) kg−1 diet for 56 days under three ammonia contents (0.00, 5.70 and 11.40 mg L−1 total ammonia nitrogen). The results showed that ammonia toxicity could affects growth (weight gain, feed efficiency ratio, Se contents in muscle and whole body declined) and survival, leads to oxidative stress (total antioxidant capacity, superoxide dismutase, catalase and glutathione peroxidase activities declined and malondialdehyde accumulation), immunosuppression (lysozyme activity, 50% hemolytic complement, immunoglobulin M, respiratory burst and phagocytic index declined) and cytokines release (TNF, IL 1 and IL 8 elevated), induces up-regulation of antioxidant enzymes (Cu/Zn-SOD, Mn-SOD, CAT and GPx), cytokines (TNFα, IL 1 and IL 8) and pro-apoptotic genes (p53, Bax, Cytochrome c, Caspase 3 and Caspase 9) transcription, and down-regulation of anti-apoptotic gene Bcl2 transcription. The dietary Se supplementation could mitigate the adverse effect of ammonia poisoning on fish growth, oxidative damage, immunosuppression and apoptotic.
Lamp-coupled crispr–cas12a module for rapid and sensitive detection of plant dna viruses. One important factor for successful disease management is the ability to rapidly and accurately identify the causal agent. Plant viruses cause severe economic losses and pose a serious threat to sustainable agriculture. Therefore, optimization of the speed, sensitivity, feasibility, portabil-ity, and accuracy of virus detection is urgently needed. Here, we developed a clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR)-based nucleic acid diagnostic method utilizing the CRISPR–Cas12a system for detecting two geminiviruses, tomato yellow leaf curl virus (TYLCV) and tomato leaf curl New Delhi virus (ToLCNDV), which have single-stranded DNA genomes. Our assay detected TYLCV and ToLCNDV in infected plants with high sensitivity and specificity. Our newly developed assay can be performed in ~1 h and provides easy-to-interpret visual readouts using a simple, low-cost fluorescence visualizer, making it suitable for point-of-use applications.
Down-regulation of DR12, an auxin-response-factor homolog, in the tomato results in a pleiotropic phenotype including dark green and blotchy ripening fruit. Following differential screening of gene expression during tomato fruit development, we isolated developmentally regulated (DR) clones, including several putative transcription factors. Based on sequence homology, DR1, DR3, DR4 and DR8 are members of the Aux/IAA family, and DR12 belongs to the auxin response factor (ARF) family of transcription factors. Importantly, mRNA accumulation for the Aux/IAA-like genes was regulated by ethylene in tomato fruit but not in the leaves, indicating that these putative auxin response components also participate to the ethylene-dependent regulation of gene expression in a tissue-specific manner. The functional significance of DR12, the ARF-like gene, was investigated by cellular biology and reverse genetics approaches. Heterologous protein targeting studies, carried out using a DR12-GFP gene fusion construct, revealed specific nuclear localization of the DR12-encoded protein, in accordance with its putative function as a transcriptional regulator. Transgenic plants over- and under-expressing DR12 were generated in order to explore the physiological role of the gene. Both antisense and sense co-suppressed DR12-inhibited lines displayed a pleiotropic phenotype that included dark-green immature fruit, unusual cell division in the fruit pericarp, blotchy ripening, enhanced fruit firmness, upward curling leaves and increased hypocotyl and cotyledon growth. While a perturbation of the response to auxin may explain some of the phenotypes, surprisingly, the expression of members of four classes of early auxin-regulated genes was unaffected in the DR12-inhibited plants. The involvement of this ARF-like encoded protein in mediating the auxin response is discussed along with the possibility that it might affect responsiveness to other phytohormones in the tomato.
Conserved epigenetic mechanisms could play a key role in regulation of photosynthesis and development-related genes during needle development of Pinus radiata. Needle maturation is a complex process that involves cell growth, differentiation and tissue remodelling towards the acquisition of full physiological competence. Leaf induction mechanisms are well known; however, those underlying the acquisition of physiological competence are still poorly understood, especially in conifers. We studied the specific epigenetic regulation of genes defining organ function (PrRBCS and PrRBCA) and competence and stress response (PrCSDP2 and PrSHMT4) during three stages of needle development and one de-differentiated control. Gene-specific changes in DNA methylation and histone were analysed by bisulfite sequencing and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP). The expression of PrRBCA and PrRBCS increased during needle maturation and was associated with the progressive loss of H3K9me3, H3K27me3 and the increase in AcH4. The maturation-related silencing of PrSHMT4 was correlated with increased H3K9me3 levels, and the repression of PrCSDP2, to the interplay between AcH4, H3K27me3, H3K9me3 and specific DNA methylation. The employ of HAT and HDAC inhibitors led to a further determination of the role of histone acetylation in the regulation of our target genes. The integration of these results with high-throughput analyses in Arabidopsis thaliana and Populus trichocarpa suggests that the specific epigenetic mechanisms that regulate photosynthetic genes are conserved between the analysed species.
Cost-effectiveness of exome sequencing: an Italian pilot study on undiagnosed patients. Recent advances in genomic sequencing and their implementation in clinical practice are widely recognized as diagnostic milestones, and are influencing considerably medical decision making in term of patients’ management. The cost-effectiveness of genomic analysis as first-tier tests has been documented. However, only a few studies have assessed systematically the economic impact of a revised diagnostic trajectory based on exome sequencing in the health system for undiagnosed patients. We report on the assessment of diagnostic costs referred to a large cohort of patients enrolled in the Bambino Gesù Children’s Hospital’s “Undiagnosed Patients Program”, supporting the cost-effectiveness of exome sequencing in a universalistic health care service compared to the traditional multi-step diagnostic workup. Our data provide evidence that revision of health policy to promote genomic sequencing of patients with suspected Mendelian disorders would allow reallocation of resources for rare diseases from diagnostics to patient care. At a social level, diagnosis is crucial to receive the social “sick role” and establish an effective doctor-patient relationship. The application of genomic sequencing as first-tier diagnostic test does improve this process speeding up the diagnosis and management of undiagnosed patients.
Metallogenic Specialization of Kuznetsk Basin Coal. Abstract: With a view to comprehensive processing of coal and its ash and slag wastes, the metallogenic specialization of Kuznetsk Basin coal is assessed for different geological and economic regions and for coal of different metamorphic stages. The content of nonferrous and rare metals in Kuznetsk Basin coal and Kazakh coal is compared. The prospects for extracting valuable metals from coal and, in particular, its waste are assessed. Nonferrous and rare metals may accumulate in the initial coal (the syngenetic factor) and coal may be associated with the action of metal–hydrogen–carbon fluids on tectonically permeable sections of the coal bed (the endogenetic factor). In addition, elevated metal content in the coal may be associated with the proximity of several coal fields (the epigenetic factor). In the Kuznetsk Basin, the endogenetic and epigenetic factors are most significant. The metamorphic stage of the coal has less effect on the metal content. Metals present in low concentrations are most often the result of accumulation in the initial coal (the syngenetic factor). The content of toxic metals in the coal is below the limiting permissible concentration.
Ecological principles of World Ocean monitoring. Anthropogenic effect on the World Ocean in the course of exploiting its resources has led to a significant contamination of some ocean areas in the latest decades and to diminution of the natural capacity of marine ecosystems to reproduction and self-regulation. Thus, the most urgent problem of today has become evident: the problem of the World Ocean pollution and its negative ecological effects. Local pollutions and their ecological effects on the World Ocean go on acquiring large-scale regional and even global character since the elements of ocean ecosystems and the ocean properties are interrelated and interconditioned. Looking into pollutant transfer and transformation in the marine environment we can distinguish four subsystems: ocean-land, ocean-atmosphere, and water-bottom sediments interfaces as well as ocean water mass. Ocean-atmosphere and water-floor subsystems require special consideration since their coefficients of pollutant accumulation are much greater than that of the water mass. Besides water exchange, the processes of pollutant transfer in the water mass effect the interference between the solute and suspended matter on the one hand, and water mass-biota interaction on the other. Atmospheric transport and deposition of chemical toxicants are considerable sources of the World Ocean pollution; their share in the total balance of the anthropogenic pollution influx into marine environment is commensurable with the river runoff. The most dangerous, among various pollutants entering the World Ocean, are oil, hydrocarbon chlorides (pesticides, polychloride bifenyls), toxic metals (mercury, cadmium, lead), i.e. globally occurring chemical compounds continuously entering the marine environment and effecting marine organisms and their populations. Still new and new pollutants are being discovered now in the oceans: chloride and polychloride terpenes, nitrosamines, chlordane, etc. The problems of eutrophication and microbiological contamination of the inland seas and ocean coastal zones are becoming still more urgent. Accumulation of aromatic polycyclic carcinogenous hydrocarbons. BaP in particular, is pregnant with unexpected ecological effects. The highest PAH concentrations have been observed in the sea coast areas and in the zones of intensive navigation. Rather high coefficients (102-104) of BaP accumulation in the sea biota and bottom sediments are marked. Ecological and biological effects of changes in the chemical composition of the ocean make up the chain of interrelated reactions; transformation of natural biogeocenoses, disturbance of the cycle of carbon, nitrogen, sulphur and other elements, reduction of biological productivity and cell genome affection present the most essential effects of these reactions. Stresses in the abiotic component of the ecosystem are expressed through disturbances in the chemical balance, changes in the evaporation from the sea surface, oil aggregate formation (floatable biocenoses), disturbances in reducing reactions of biogenous elements, salinity and temperature variation, and so on. Population-biocenotic effects of the man-made impact, actually important for the level of ecosystem stability, include the following processes of the structural and functional character: - alteration of the mean biomass of plankton and benthos populations, in particular in semi-enclosed seas and off-shore ocean areas; - alteration of the number of higher taxons-genera or families of the sea organisms, in particular replacement of the dominant populations of mass species, and emergence of hydrobionts new for the marine environment; - alteration of the relations between the numbers of some taxonomic groups of hydrobionts and abundant development of indicator species of the sea biota, e.g. BaP and PCB oxidizing microorganisms; - disturbances in production/destruction processes of organic substances; - energy flux changes in the marine ecosystem. Analysis of the current knowledge on the ocean environment pollution and its negative effects has enabled to formulate the main directions of the World Ocean ecological monitoring. Investigations of the biogeochemical cycles of pollutants and elements in the marine environment, identification of the effect of pollutants abundant in the ocean on the Earth's climate and hydrochemical regime as well as major geophysical processes in the ocean and atmosphere make up integral parts of the ocean monitoring together with the studies of pollutant impact on the ocean biota which leads to biological regime alterations and affection of the sea organisms genofond.
A GIS-based optimization framework for competitive multi-facility location-routing problem. In a dynamic market setting, firms need to quickly respond to shifting demographics and economic conditions. In this paper, we investigate the problem of determining the optimum set of locations for a firm, which operates a chain of facilities under competition. We consider the objective of maximizing profit, defined as gross profit margin minus logistics costs. We propose a location-routing model where revenue is realized according to probabilistic patronization of customers and routing costs are incurred due to vehicles serving the open facilities from a central depot. We propose a hybrid heuristic optimization methodology for solving this model. The optimal locations are searched for by a Genetic Algorithm while an integrated Tabu Search algorithm is employed for solving the underlying vehicle routing problem. The solution approach is tested on a real dataset of a supermarket chain. The results show that the location decisions made by the proposed methodology lead to increased market share and profit margin, while keeping logistics costs virtually unchanged. Finally, we present a GIS-based framework that can be used to store, analyze and visualize all data as well as model solutions in geographic format.
Role of the thioredoxin system and the thiol-peroxidases Tpx and Bcp in mediating resistance to oxidative and nitrosative stress in Helicobacter pylori. Helicobacter pylori possesses two distinct thioredoxin proteins (Trx1 and Trx2) which may play important roles in the ability of this bacterium to survive oxidative stress. Trx1 has previously been shown to be an electron donor in vitro for alkyl-hydroperoxide reductase (AhpC), one of three members of the peroxiredoxin family of antioxidant peroxidases present in H. pylori. In this study, mutants in the trxA1 and trxA2 genes encoding Trx1 and Trx2, respectively, and in the tpx and bcp genes, which encode the remaining two members of the H. pylori peroxiredoxin family, were constructed in order to determine their roles in resistance to damage by reactive oxygen and nitrogen species. Mutation of trxA1 led to a pronounced increase in sensitivity to oxygen, hydrogen peroxide and the superoxide generator paraquat, as well as to the nitric oxide (NO) releasers sodium nitroprusside (SNP) and S-nitrosoglutathione (GSNO), consistent with an in vivo role for Trx1 as a reductant for AhpC. A trxA2 single mutant grew normally in an atmosphere of 2% (v/v) O2 but grew very poorly in 10% (v/v) O2. It showed slight increases in killing by hydrogen peroxide, paraquat, SNP and GSNO compared to the wild-type, but was significantly more sensitive to cumene hydroperoxide in disc-diffusion assays. A trxA1 trxA2 double mutant was very sensitive to all of the oxidative and nitrosative stresses applied. Comparison of the phenotypes of the tpx and bcp mutants showed that Tpx plays a significant role in peroxide and superoxide resistance in H. pylori, while the role of Bcp is minimal. No evidence was obtained for a role for either Tpx or Bcp in resistance to the toxic effects of NO. The results show that a functional thioredoxin system is necessary for both oxidative and nitrosative stress resistance in H. pylori but, surprisingly, is not essential for viability despite the absence of glutathione and a glutaredoxin system in this bacterium.
Three chromosomal rearrangements promote genomic divergence between migratory and stationary ecotypes of Atlantic cod. Identification of genome-wide patterns of divergence provides insight on how genomes are influenced by selection and can reveal the potential for local adaptation in spatially structured populations. In Atlantic cod-historically a major marine resource-Northeast-Arctic-and Norwegian coastal cod are recognized by fundamental differences in migratory and non-migratory behavior, respectively. However, the genomic architecture underlying such behavioral ecotypes is unclear. Here, we have analyzed more than 8.000 polymorphic SNPs distributed throughout all 23 linkage groups and show that loci putatively under selection are localized within three distinct genomic regions, each of several megabases long, covering approximately 4% of the Atlantic cod genome. These regions likely represent genomic inversions. The frequency of these distinct regions differ markedly between the ecotypes, spawning in the vicinity of each other, which contrasts with the low level of divergence in the rest of the genome. The observed patterns strongly suggest that these chromosomal rearrangements are instrumental in local adaptation and separation of Atlantic cod populations, leaving footprints of large genomic regions under selection. Our findings demonstrate the power of using genomic information in further understanding the population dynamics and defining management units in one of the world' s most economically important marine resources.
Synthesis and toxicity of full-length and truncated bacterial CryIVD mosquitocidal proteins expressed in lepidopteran cells using a baculovirus vector. Full-length (72K) and truncated (61K) CryIVD mosquitocidal proteins of Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) were expressed in Spodoptera frugiperda cells and larvae of Trichoplusia ni using a baculovirus vector to investigate the role of CryIVD peptides in toxicity as well as to evaluate further the baculovirus/lepidopteran system for expressing Bt proteins. The cryIVD genes were inserted into the Autographa californica multinucleocapsid nuclear polyhedrosis virus (AcMNPV) under control of the polyhedrin promoter by recombination in S. frugiperda cells between a transfer vector carrying the Bt genes and vDA26Z, a recombinant AcMNPV carrying the Escherichia coli β-galactosidase gene under control of the DA26 promoter. Recombinant AcMNPVs carrying the genes were detected as blue occlusion body-negative plaques in monolayers of S. frugiperda cells grown in the presence of X-Gal. Infection of S. frugiperda cells and T. ni larvae with plaque-purified recombinant virus, expressing either the full-length or truncated CryIVD protein, resulted in the synthesis of proteins of the expected size, as confirmed by immunoblot analyses, and their crystallization into cuboidal inclusions in the cytoplasm. Infected cells and purified inclusions from the virus (AcCryIVD) expressing the full-length protein were highly toxic to mosquito larvae, but similar preparations from the virus (AcCryIVD-C) expressing the truncated protein with a 9.6K deletion at the N terminus were non-toxic. Proteolysis with trypsin of CryIVD proteins produced by Bt and the recombinant AcMNPVs yielded peptides corresponding in size, showing that synthesis of mosquitocidal Bt proteins in lepidopteran cells occurred. The lack of toxicity of the truncated CryIVD protein, which like the toxic full-length protein yielded a 34K protein on proteolysis that has been implicated in toxicity, indicates that by itself this protein is non-toxic. These results demonstrate the utility of the baculovirus system for expression of mosquitocidal Bt proteins and for investigation of their mode of action.
Community Structure Analysis and Biodegradation Potential of Aniline-Degrading Bacteria in Biofilters. Aniline has aroused general concern owing to its strong toxicity and widespread distribution in water and soil. In the present study, the bacterial community composition before and after aniline acclimation was investigated. High-throughput Illumina MiSeq sequencing analysis illustrated a large shift in the structure of the bacterial community during the aniline acclimation period. Bacillus, Lactococcus, and Enterococcus were the dominant bacteria in biologically activated carbon before acclimation. However, the proportions of Pseudomonas, Thermomonas, and Acinetobacter increased significantly and several new bacterial taxa appeared after aniline acclimation, indicating that aniline acclimation had a strong impact on the bacterial community structure of biological activated carbon samples. Strain AN-1 accounted for the highest number of colonies on incubation plates and was identified as Acinetobacter sp. according to phylogenetic analysis of the 16S ribosomal ribonucleic acid gene sequence. Strain AN-1 was able to grow on aniline at pH value 4.0–10.0 and showed high aniline-degrading ability at neutral pH.
What's the harm? Genetic counselor perceptions of adverse effects of genetics service provision by non-genetics professionals. Anecdotal accounts suggest some patients have experienced negative outcomes as a result of receiving genetics services from non-genetics providers, but empirical evidence of these incidents and their outcomes is limited. This study examined genetic counselors' perceptions of the occurrence of such incidents in the state of Minnesota. Twenty-five genetic counselors completed an on-line survey and 20 also participated in a semi-structured telephone interview. The interviewees recalled and described 37 specific incidents they perceived as having negative outcomes for patients and/or their families. Inductive and cross-case analysis revealed common themes including: adverse psychosocial effects, inadequate genetic counseling, genetic testing and screening errors, medical mismanagement, negative shifts in attitudes toward medical providers, and unnecessary use of health care resources. Commonly mentioned strategies for preventing/mitigating negative outcomes included: educational outreach and awareness programs for medical providers and the general public, standardized testing and screening processes, and implementing mechanisms for reporting and addressing adverse events. Additional findings, practice and policy implications, and research recommendations are discussed.
Black pod disease caused by Phytophthora palmivora in assigned cocoa center productions in west Sumatra Indonesia. In 2006, the Indonesian government assigned West Sumatra as the centre of cocoa cultivation (Theobroma cacao L) for the western region of Indonesia. Public and the West Sumatra's local government responses were considered satisfactory, as proven by the increase in cocoa plantation area from only 25,000 ha in 2005 to more than 130,000 ha in 2013. However, the increase in the plantation was not reflected in cocoa production. Average production of cocoa in West Sumatra is 300-700 kg/ha, whereas the genetic potential could reach up to 2,000 kg/ha. From survey and discussion with farmers in six districts covering 36 smallholders of cocoa plantations in West Sumatra, it indicated that all surveyed plantations have been attacked by diseases and pests. In this study, the identification of the fungus on cocoa fruit with rot symptom was conducted by collecting samples in cocoa plantation belonging to PT. Inang Sari which covers an area of 400 ha in the District of Agam. The plantation is being attacked by diseases with different symptoms, similar to the situation of 36 smallholder plantations which have been surveyed. It was the reason why PT. Inang Sari plantation was chosen in this study as the representative of the cocoa's fruit problem in the province. The collecting of fruit with rot symptoms used purposive sampling, based on the severity of its case known from interviews conducted with technicians in charge of the area. Based on the interview, 10 areas of PT. Inang Sari having the highest level of severity and variation of symptoms were chosen. The result of this research found that 86% of fruit that have rot symptoms was caused by Phytophthora palmivora. It describes as the current condition of cocoa plantation in West Sumatra Indonesia.
Biodiversity prospecting: using innovative contractual provisions to foster ethnobotanical knowledge, technology, and conservation. In this article the authors examine natural product drug development, or biodiversity prospecting, as a means to conserve tropical biodiversity and sustainably develop tropical country economies in manners that directly validate the knowledge of indigenous and other forest peoples while also providing benefits to their communities. Part II of this article discusses the history of genetic trade, illustrating the lack of conservation incentives within the commercialisation of genetic resources. Following this background discussion, the article discusses selected principles and objectives advanced in the 1992 Biodiversity Convention and illustrates how biodiversity prospecting agreements among private parties and governments may be used to help realize these objectives. Part III evaluates the role of private agreements in the biodiversity prospecting industry, specifically their ability to function as a tool for the conservation of biological and cultural diversity. Part IV describes selected conservation and development issues, such as challenges involved in allocating and distributing financial benefits as well as encouraging national legislation for the sustainable management of biodiversity. -from Authors
Stochastic optimal reactive power dispatch method based on point estimation considering voltage stability margins. Conventional optimal reactive power dispatch approaches operate mostly in deterministic form where the power injections are known and fixed. However, in practice, power injections, especially from intermittent renewable sources, and demands are uncertain. Therefore, this paper develops a voltage stability margin constrained stochastic optimal reactive power dispatch (VC-SORPD) method. The chance constrains have been transferred into the deterministic constraints by the stochastic optimal reactive power method based on the point estimation. Then the programming is solved through the genetic algorithm with the improved conjugate gradient operator. Simulation results on several cases demonstrate that the proposed method is able to prevent under and over-compensation and increase the load margin at a cost of a small but acceptable increase of active power losses.
Fluorescent nanoparticle adhesion assay: A novel method for surface pK a determination of self-assembled monolayers on silicon surfaces. Since the computer industry enables us to generate smaller and smaller structures, silicon surface chemistry is becoming increasingly important for (bio-)- analytical and biological applications. For controlling the binding of charged biomacromolecules such as DNA and proteins on modified silicon surfaces, the surface pK a is an important factor. Here we present a fluorescent nanoparticle adhesion assay as a novel method to determine the surface pK a of silicon surfaces modified with weak acids or bases. This method is based upon electrostatic interactions between the modified silicon surface and fluorescent nanoparticles with an opposite charge. Silicon slides were modified with 3-aminopropyltriethoxysilane (APTES) and were further derivatized with succinic anhydride. Layer thickness of these surfaces was determined by ellipsometry. After incubating the surfaces with an amine-reactive fluorescent dye, fluorescence microscopy revealed that the silicon surfaces were successfully modified with amineand carboxyl-groups. Two surface pK a values were found for APTES surfaces by the fluorescent nanoparticle adhesion assay. The first surface pK a (6.55 ± 0.73) was comparable with the surface pK a obtained by contact angle titration (7.3 ± 0.8), and the second surface pK a (9.94 ± 0.19) was only found by using the fluorescent nanoparticle adhesion assay. The surface pKa of the carboxyl-modified surface by the fluorescent nanoparticle adhesion assay (4.37 ± 0.59) did not significantly differ from that found by contact angle titration (5.7 ± 1.4). In conclusion, we have developed a novel method to determine the surface pK a of modified silicon surfaces: the fluorescent nanoparticle adhesion assay. This method may provide a useful tool for designing pHdependent electrostatic protein and particle binding/release and to design surfaces with a pH-dependent surface charge for (bio-)analytical lab-on-a-chip devices or drug delivery purposes.
Shifts in the structure and function of the microbial community in response to metal pollution of fresh water sediments in Finland. Purpose: Mining is a common source of metals in aquatic ecosystems. Metal loading in the environment is thought to be a selective pressure that induces compositional and functional changes within the affected microbial community in the sediment. This study aims to explore shifts in the diversity, structure, and functional gene abundance of microbial communities in the sediment of the copper mining-induced contaminated lakes in Finland. Materials and methods: The sediment microbial community structures and abundance of the functional groups involved in carbon/nitrogen/sulfur cycling in four lakes located downstream from metal mines (Kirkkoselkä (KS), Junttiselkä (JS), Laakajärvi (LJ), and Sysmäjärvi (SJ)) and one reference lake (Parkkimanjärvi (PJ)) in Finland were compared using high throughput sequencing and quantitative PCR. Results and discussion: Compared to the PJ reference lake sediment, the relative abundances were higher for Bacteroidetes, Gemmatimonadetes, Acidobacteria, and Nitrospirae but lower for Firmicutes and Alphaproteobacteria in the mine-contaminated sediment samples. The number of copies of copper-resistant genes (copA) in the two copper-contaminated sediments (5.34 × 106 and 4.95 × 106 copies ng−1 DNA for KS and JS, respectively) was significantly higher than that in the PJ sediment (1.33 × 106 copies ng−1 DNA). Methanogens (mcrA gene) accounted for 5.09–11.5% of the total archaea (16S rRNA) in these lake sediments. In addition, ammonia-oxidizing archaea (amoA gene) in the LJ sediment accounted for 36.0% of the total archaea but only 0.83–1.63% in the sediment of other lakes. The abundance of eight investigated functional groups accounted for 28.8% of the total bacteria in the PJ sediment but less than 1.3% in the metal-contaminated sediments. The canonical correspondence analysis showed that the microbial community structure of Lake LJ was scattered far from the other lakes and was significantly correlated with nitrate; the community structural change in the JS and KS sediments was positively correlated with copper or negatively correlated with nitrate concentration. Conclusions: These results indicate that the sedimentary indigenous microbial community may shift its composition and structure as well as its function to increase its adaptability and/or resistance to metal-contaminated freshwater sediments.
Decontextualized Knowledge, Situated Politics: The New Scientific-Local Politics of Rice Genetic Resources in Thailand. Recent practices of scientific-local knowledge interaction in Thailand surrounding rice genetic resources have led to a new phenomenon, which this article calls knowledge inclusion. This study explores several forms of knowledge inclusion -participatory science, localized science, scientized knowledge and hybridized knowledge- as new loci of political practices among government rice breeders, non-governmental officials and farmers. Ethnographic studies are used to reveal that, through selectively incorporating elements of each other's knowledges, these scientific and local knowledge practitioners have drawn on the discourses of scientific-local knowledges to their political advantage. The ramifications of this new politics vary according to different political arenas in rice genetic resource management. Based on these findings, the article argues that recent practices of knowledge inclusion should not be obscured by the notion of situated knowledge, but should be understood as situated politics of decontextualized knowledge in genetic resource management. The argument reconceptualizes the new scientific-local politics as a synthesis between the power-knowledge relation and the power-structural context in which genetic resource management takes place.
Multi-objective optimization based approaches for active power filter design - A comparison. This paper introduces an optimal active power filter design method to compensate simultaneously current harmonics and reactive power of a nonlinear load. The power filter consists of a passive RL low-pass filter placed in series with the load and a pure active filter which has RL elements connected in series with insulated gate bipolar transistors (IGBT) based voltage source converter. The filter is supposed to inject a current into the connection node of the load and grid in order to eliminate current harmonics and its imaginary current. The voltage source converter is placed in a hysteresis feedback control loop to generate the reference current. The band width and output amplitude of the hysteresis controller are optimized with inductance of RL filters. In solving the optimization problem, three objective functions are considered which include minimizing current total harmonic distortion (THD), maximizing power factor and minimizing the IGBT bridge current. The four optimization methods applied are the goal attainment, max ordering, non-dominated sorting genetic algorithm-II and strength Pareto evolutionary algorithm 2 (SPEA2) methods. The results of the four optimization methods are compared and it is shown that the SPEA2 method gives the best performance in terms of minimizing current THD and maximizing the power factor.
The Effect of Toxic Cyanobacteria (Blue-Green Algae) on Water Plants and Animal Cells. The eutrophication of the Sulejów reservoir dam in Poland is connected with the problem of toxicity of cyanobacterial blooming (blue-green algal blooming). The main species responsible for hepatotoxic "algal bloom" formation is Microcystis aeruginosa. The aim of this study is to evaluate the influence of the toxic cyanobacterial extract containing microcystins on the growth and morphology of a water plant (Spirodela oligorrhiza) and animal cells (rat hepatocytes). A higher concentration of cyanobacterial extract (MC-LR = 343 μg/dm3) reduced the number of fronds by about 50% in comparison with the control. The extract affected the reduction mass of fronds and the concentration of chlorophyll. The activity of the constitutive acid phosphatase decreased. The first morphological changes in rat hepatocytes typical of apoptosis were observed after 30 minutes of incubation with the cyanobacterial extract. The hepatocytes underwent cell membrane blebbing (MC-LR = 100 μg/dm3). The next 30 minutes of incubation caused an increase in the percentage of deforming cells of more than 50% (MC-LR = 100 μg/dm3). High chromatin condensation and apoptotic bodes were observed in 90% of cells after 120 minutes (MC-LR ≥ 500 μg/dm3). The results of studies confirm the high toxic and cytotoxic effect of blue-green algal blooming from Sulejów reservoir on both plants and animals.
Genetic counseling: The development of a new interdisciplinary occupational field. A power approach to the study of occupations is used to understand the development of a new occupation-the Masters level genetic counselor. The internal dimension of the power perspective is utilized in analyzing this new health care provider's efforts to gain a place alongside practitioners who possess medical or doctoral degrees. The external dimension is used to focus on the relationship between occupational control and other institutional bases of power in the society. The status of genetic counselor is compared to that of the nurse-practitioner and nurse-midwife. Claims of expertise regarding control over indetermination and uncertainty are discussed as well as society's willingness to accept these assertions.
Challenges and coping strategies of parents of children with autism on the Kenyan coast. Introduction: Research on the challenges of raising a child with autism is mostly conducted in Europe, North America and Australia, and has revealed that parents have to come to terms with living with a lifelong developmental disability. In addition, parents are faced with numerous concerns, such as caring burdens, poor prognosis, and negative public attitudes. Virtually no research has been conducted in Africa on this subject. Methods: Thirty-seven interviews and eight focus group discussions were conducted with parents of children with autism and professionals in regular contact with these parents from rural and urban counties of the Kenyan coast. The study investigated challenges faced by parents and how they cope with those challenges. A purposive-convenience sampling procedure was used in selecting the study participants. A digital recorder was used to record all the interviews and focus group discussions. Transcriptions were done in Swahili, translated into English, and then imported to the NVivo software program for content analysis. Results: The results indicate that parents of children with autism on the Kenyan coast experience common challenges including stigma, lack of appropriate treatment, financial and caring burdens regardless of their religious and cultural backgrounds. Coping strategies applied by parents comprised problem-focused aspects that involve diet management and respite care, and emotionfocused aspects that consist of beliefs in supernatural powers, prayers and spiritual healing. Conclusions: This qualitative study reveals a range of challenges that could have significant impact when caring for a child with autism. Coping strategies applied by parents target the physical health of the child and the psychological wellbeing of the parent. Consideration of these outcomes is vital as they could impact the initiation of a community-based rehabilitation service delivery in rural settings where parents play an active role.
Secondary Succession Altered the Diversity and Co-Occurrence Networks of the Soil Bacterial Communities in Tropical Lowland Rainforests. The characteristics of plant and soil bacterial communities in forest ecosystems have been reported, but our understanding of the relationship between plant communities and soil bacteria in different stages of secondary tropical rainforest succession is still poor. In June 2018, three different natural successional stages of tropical lowland rainforests, early (33 years), early-mid (60 years), and mid successional stage (73 years), in Hainan Island, China, were selected for this study. By conducting field investigation and 16S rRNA gene high-throughput sequencing, the composition and diversity of tree communities, the niche overlap of tree species with legumes among tree species, and the diversity and composition of soil bacterial communities and co-occurrence networks within communities across the successional stages were investigated. The results showed that plant richness and species diversity increased significantly during the secondary succession of tropical lowland rainforests. The order of positive correlations between nitrogen-fixing legumes and other species in plant communities was early-mid > mid > early successional stage. Soil nutrient content and soil bacterial richness were highest in the early-mid stages of succession, followed by mid and early stages of succession. Organic matter (OM), total nitrogen (TN), alkali nitrogen (AN), and available phosphorus (AP) had a stronger positive impact on soil bacterial communities. Co-occurrence network analysis showed that with the advancement of rainforests succession, the negative correlation between soil bacterial species decreased, and the community stability increased. Overall, as a result of tropical lowland rainforest secondary natural succession, the richness and diversity of plant communities increased, which altered the living conditions of nitrogen-fixing legumes and the soil properties, and the network complexity of soil bacterial communities increased with the rising of rainforest soil nutrient content.
Varieties of peaches with greater economic potential: A case study in northern Mexico. Market demand and consumer needs must be the input used when planning volumes and quality attributes of fresh products. Therefore, this research was oriented at analyzing the expected preferences towards the quality attributes required by consumers and the sensory acceptability (e.g. tasting) of new peach varieties. The information was obtained from a sample of 400 peach consumers in Zacate-cas, Mexico and it was later analyzed by multidimensional scaling, factor analysis, and cluster analysis. In general, the main quality attributes considered by peach consumers before the sensory experience were: external color, size and absence of bruises or blemishes on the fruit’s skin. After the sensory ex-perience, the peach varieties with the highest acceptability among consumers were characterized by strong yellow to orange external color, yellow pulp, sweetness between 11 °Brix and 13 °Brix, firmness, no tip, very short hairiness, characteristic smell, size from 52 mm to 60 mm and red blush from 25 % to 75 %. Three types of consumers were identified: “active-healthy”, who were concerned about their health and the environment (50 %); “skeptic” who had an indifferent attitude towards the environment and their personal health (24 %); and “environmentally conscious and health unconcerned”, who were less concerned about their health, but had a greater interest in the environment (26 %). Each seg-ment has preferences for different types of varieties. However, the acceptance of certain varieties by consumers could change depending on the availability of each variety in the market (seasonality or se-ason of supply). Thus, the results from this research contribute to re-directing genetic improvement ef-forts of peach varieties based on sensory needs and types of consumers.
Is intake of flavonoid-based food supplements during pregnancy safe for the developing child? A literature review. Due to potential health benefits and the general assumption that natural products are safe, there is an increasing trend in the general population – including pregnant women – to supplement their diet with flavonoid-based food supplements. In addition, preclinical studies aim to prevent developmental adverse effects induced by toxic substances, infections, maternal or genetic diseases of the unborn child by administration of flavonoids at doses far above those reached by normal diets. Because these substances do not undergo classical risk assessment processes, our aim was to review the available literature on the potential adverse effects of maternal diet supplementation with flavonoid-based products for the developing child. A systematic literature search was performed in three databases and screened following four exclusion criteria. Selected studies were classified into two groups: 1. Studies on the developmental toxicity of single flavonoids in vitro or in animals in vivo, and 2. Studies on the developmental toxicity of single flavonoids or on flavonoid-mixtures in humans. The data collected indicate that there is a concern for the safety of some flavonoids within realistic human exposure scenarios. This concern is accompanied by a tremendous lack of studies on safety of these compounds during development making definite safety decisions impossible. Besides studies of survival, especially the more specific developmental processes like nervous system development need to be addressed experimentally. Before new high-dose, flavonoid-based therapeutic strategies are developed for pregnant women further research on the safety of these compounds is clearly needed.
Minority Pediatric Patients with Inflammatory Bowel Disease Demonstrate an Increased Length of Stay. Background: Genetic and other biological factors may lead to differences in disease behavior among children with inflammatory bowel disease of different races, which may be further modified by disparities in care delivery. Using the Kids’ Inpatient Database, we aimed to evaluate differences in the management of pediatric patients with inflammatory bowel disease by race, focusing on length of stay (LOS). Methods: We performed a cross-sectional analysis using 2000 to 2012 data from the Kids’ Inpatient Database, a nationally representative database. We identified pediatric patients (#18 years of age) with discharge diagnoses of Crohn’s disease (CD) or ulcerative colitis (UC). We used multivariable logistic regression to evaluate the relationship between race and LOS, controlling for age, payer status need for surgery, and year of admission. Results: We identified 27,295 hospitalizations for children with inflammatory bowel disease (62% CD and 38% UC), Compared with white patients with CD, black (adjusted odds ratio 1.37; 95% confidence interval, 1.22–1.53; P , 0.001) and Hispanic patients (adjusted odds ratio: 1.37; 95% confidence interval: 1.19–1.59; P , 0.001) with CD demonstrated increased odds of a LOS greater than the 75th percentile. When compared with white patients with UC, Hispanic patients also demonstrated increased odds of a LOS greater than the 75th percentile (adjusted odds ratio: 1.20; 95% confidence interval, 1.02–1.42, P ¼ 0.015). Conclusions: After controlling for age, year of admission, and clinical phenotypes, black and Hispanic patients with CD and Hispanic patients with UC had longer LOS than white patients. These may be due to differences in provider/hospital characteristics, socioeconomic differences, and/or differences in genetics and other biological factors (see Video Abstract, Supplemental Digital Content 1, ).
Familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP)--diagnosis and management. Familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) is characterized by more than hundreds of colorectal adenomas, colorectal cancer in early adult life, extracolonic features and genetic inheritance. Not only surgical management of FAP (IAA, IACA and IRA) but also methodology of APC gene test is almost established. Surveillance program and management of extracolonic manifestation is going to contribute to patient's prognosis. And now in Japan, two clinical intervention and chemoprevention trial studies of FAP are going on. As these reasons, FAP is most comprehensive model for understanding status quo and future problem of familial cancer syndromes. However, there are many counseling issues of FAP family members, choice of opportunity and method for diagnosis, surveillance, chemoprevention, surgery and to inform family member about hereditary risk. So, Cancer Genetic Counseling for FAP family members must be provided for their lifetime long.
Assessing performance of spore samplers in monitoring aeromycobiota and fungal plant pathogen diversity in Canada. Spore samplers are widely used in pathogen surveillance but not so much for monitoring the composition of aeromycobiota. In Canada, a nationwide spore-sampling network (AeroNet) was established as a pilot project to assess fungal community composition in air and rain samples collected using three different spore samplers in the summers of 2010 and 2011. Metabarcodes of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) were exhaustively characterized for three of the network sites, in British Columbia (BC), Québec (QC), and Prince Edward Island (PEI), to compare performance of the samplers. Sampler type accounted for ca. 20% of the total explainable variance in aeromycobiota compositional heterogeneity, with air samplers recovering more Ascomycota and rain samplers recovering more Basidiomycota. Spore samplers showed different abilities to collect 27 fungal genera that are plant pathogens. For instance, Cladosporium spp., Drechslera spp., and Entyloma spp. were collected mainly by air samplers, while Fusarium spp., Microdochium spp., and Ustilago spp. were recovered more frequently with rain samplers. The diversity and abundance of some fungi were significantly affected by sampling location and time (e.g., Alternaria and Bipolaris) and weather conditions (e.g., Mycocentrospora and Leptosphaeria), and depended on using ITS1 or ITS2 as the barcoding region (e.g., Epicoccum and Botrytis). The observation that Canada's aeromycobiota diversity correlates with cooler, wetter conditions and northward wind requires support from more long-term data sets. Our vision of the AeroNet network, combined with highthroughput sequencing (HTS) and well-designed sampling strategies, may contribute significantly to a national biovigilance network for protecting plants of agricultural and economic importance in Canada.
Recent advances towards the fabrication and biomedical applications of responsive polymeric assemblies and nanoparticle hybrid superstructures. Responsive polymeric assemblies and hybrid superstructures fabricated from stimuli-sensitive polymers and inorganic nanoparticles (NPs) have been the subject of extensive investigations during the past few decades due to their distinct advantages such as an improved water solubility, stimuli-responsiveness, excellent biocompatibility, and facile introduction of functional units. In addition, the chemical compositions of polymeric assemblies and corresponding hybrid superstructures can be modulated via the initial synthetic design to target desired functions, fabricate smart nanostructures, and explore morphology-dependent functional optimization. Promising applications in the field of imaging, sensing, drug/gene delivery, diagnostics, and nanoreactors are being extensively investigated. This perspective article focuses on recent developments, microstructural control, and biomedical applications of stimuli-responsive polymeric assemblies as well as responsive hybrid superstructures fabricated from responsive polymers and inorganic NP building blocks (gold NPs and magnetic iron oxide NPs), and highlights their current status and future developments with selected literature reports.
Direct and indirect effects of a pH gradient bring insights into the mechanisms driving prokaryotic community structures. Background: pH is frequently reported as the main driver for prokaryotic community structure in soils. However, pH changes are also linked to "spillover effects" on other chemical parameters (e.g., availability of Al, Fe, Mn, Zn, and Cu) and plant growth, but these indirect effects on the microbial communities are rarely investigated. Usually, pH also co-varies with some confounding factors, such as land use, soil management (e.g., tillage and chemical inputs), plant cover, and/or edapho-climatic conditions. So, a more comprehensive analysis of the direct and indirect effects of pH brings a better understanding of the mechanisms driving prokaryotic (archaeal and bacterial) community structures. Results: We evaluated an agricultural soil pH gradient (from 4 to 6, the typical range for tropical farms), in a liming gradient with confounding factors minimized, investigating relationships between prokaryotic communities (16S rRNA) and physical-chemical parameters (indirect effects). Correlations, hierarchical modeling of species communities (HMSC), and random forest (RF) modeling indicated that both direct and indirect effects of the pH gradient affected the prokaryotic communities. Some OTUs were more affected by the pH changes (e.g., some Actinobacteria), while others were more affected by the indirect pH effects (e.g., some Proteobacteria). HMSC detected a phylogenetic signal related to the effects. Both HMSC and RF indicated that the main indirect effect was the pH changes on the availability of some elements (e.g., Al, Fe, and Cu), and secondarily, effects on plant growth and nutrient cycling also affected the OTUs. Additionally, we found that some of the OTUs that responded to pH also correlated with CO2, CH4, and N2O greenhouse gas fluxes. Conclusions: Our results indicate that there are two distinct pH-related mechanisms driving prokaryotic community structures, the direct effect and "spillover effects" of pH (indirect effects). Moreover, the indirect effects are highly relevant for some OTUs and consequently for the community structure; therefore, it is a mechanism that should be further investigated in microbial ecology.
Invited review: Inbred strains should replace outbred stocks in toxicology, safety testing, and drug development. Methods of toxicity testing, barely changed for several decades, need to be improved. One way forward would be to use a small battery of inbred strains instead of the single outbred stock currently used in toxicity screening. Inbred strains are more stable, more uniform, more repeatable, and better defined than outbred stocks. Genetic variation would be observed as the difference between strains. Safety could be based on the most susceptible strain. Sometimes it may be possible to identify the genes involved. Mechanisms could be explored using gene expression profiling of susceptible and resistant strains. Two committees of toxicologists have concluded that the use of inbred strains, by controlling interindividual variability, would reduce the number of animals needed in toxicity screening, although both "preferred" outbred stocks. This preference appears to have been based on intuition rather than scientific principles. Data from a previously published study on the response to chloramphenicol in an outbred stock and four inbred strains is used to explain the advantages of the multistrain design. Toxicologists, safety pharmacologists, regulatory authorities, and pharmaceutical companies should take a critical look at the types of animals they use if they want to reduce the attrition rate of new drugs.
The occurrence and insecticidal activity of Bacillus thuringiensis in the arid environments. Pest control in Saudi Arabia is entirely relied on the application of chemical agents. Little information is known about the natural presence of Bacillus thuringiensis species that possess insecticidal activity in the environment of Saudi Arabia. It would be of interest to search for native species of toxic Bt strains that can be used in pest control management. Thus the aim of this study was to investigate the natural presence of Bacillus thuringiensis species that are toxic to pests in the environment of Makkah Province, western Saudi Arabia. A total of 100 soil samples and five dead larvae of Spodoptera littoralis (Lepidoptera) were examined for the presence of Bacillus thuringiensis. The bacterium was isolated by acetate-selective enrichment and plating. Identification of isolates was performed by microscopic examination, analysis of parasporal inclusions protein profiles by SDS-PAGE, toxicity assay, analysis of 16S rDNA genes and DNA sequencing for PCR products. The confirmed Bacillus thuringiensis isolates, eight in total, were recovered from 5% of soil samples and from 60% of dead larvae. These isolates exhibited strong activity against 1 st instar larvae of S. littoralis. Although Bacillus thuringiensis was not found to be abundant in soil habitats in Makkah Province, the results suggest that the bacterium is part of the indigenous microflora of the area we have explored. This is the first report of the natural presence of lepidopteran-toxic strains of Bacillus thuringiensis in the environment of western Saudi Arabia, particularly in Makkah Province.
Disruption management model and algorithm for urban distribution with travel time delay. During the process of urban distribution, travel time delay of a route will often lead to the infeasibility of the initial distribution schedule. To solve this problem, a disruption measurement method was presented, which took customers' and drivers' satisfactions, and distribution cost into considerations. For vehicle routing problems with time windows in urban distribution, an objective programming model was constructed and a genetic algorithm was applied to solve this model. The algorithm employed a two-dimension chromosome structure and a fitness evaluation method for multi-objective decision models was proposed. Finally, the validity of the objective programming model and its genetic algorithm was proved by experiments.
The German competence network stroke: Researching - Promoting - Networking. □ Background: Stroke is the most frequent neurologic disease, one of the most frequent reasons for disability and the third most frequent cause of death in Germany. Only the coordination of prevention, therapy in the acute setting and rehabilitation will improve the socioeconomic burden of stroke. □ Implementation and Results: The Competence Net Stroke (www. schlaganfallnetz.de) substantially contributes to these efforts by linking leading research groups together, improving communication, exchanging knowledge between clinicians, researchers and patients, as well as advancing public health science and quality assurance. Since the initiation of the Competence Net Stroke by the German Ministry of Education and Research in 1999, researchers and clinicians have implemented and expanded corporate databanks that jointly answer pressing questions in stroke imaging, epidemiology, and genetics. The progress that has been made is largely due to the formation of joint standard protocols at several independent institutions. The multicenter approach enabled the competence net to build up specialized criteria in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). These criteria guide the clinician to those patients, who profit from thrombolysis beyond the 3-h time window. In addition, the Competence Net Stroke succeeded in reliably detecting cerebral hemorrhage with MRI. □ Progression and Perspectives: Since 2005, and the beginning of the third funding period, the Competence Net Stroke consists of nine subnets. The integrative, rather than dominating, structure eases flexible reactions to new developments and findings in research. The Competence Net Stroke can more straightforwardly adopt new, promising research areas and end funding of those which are unsuccessful. The future and continuity of the Competence Net Stroke are secured by the acquisition of alternative funding such as " Sonderforschungsbereiche", the sixth European framework program, industrial partners, and health insurances.
Recent advances in noninvasive flexible and wearable wireless biosensors. Flexible and wearable biosensors have great potential to interface with skin and noninvasively extract biofluids for real time and continuous monitoring of physiological status. Soft electronics is the prime factor in these wearables, regardless of sensing mechanism and fabrication technology. Wireless connectivity would be a valuable addition to enhance wearable biosensor's scope for remote and resource limited settings. These skin-adaptable, user-friendly, battery-free (although not all), and noninvasive devices continuously and simultaneously monitor wearer well-being and transfer data wirelessly. Thus, they have a great potential to improve quality of life with timely diagnostics and hence early treatments. However, they remain in the early stages, with relatively conventional sensing modalities, battery requirements, soft electronics fabrication limitations, and practicable size restrictions to retain skin compatibility. We classify wearable biosensors by sensing functionality, such as skin temperature, pH, heart rate, sweat glucose, uric acid, sweat electrolyte, cerebrospinal shunt flow, and toxic chemicals, and discuss challenges and prospects for these biosensors.
Ironing out the wrinkles and folds in the epidemiology of skin fold dermatitis in dog breeds in the UK. Skin fold dermatitis (intertrigo) is an inflammatory process of closely apposing skin surfaces. Extreme conformations towards folded skin in many dog breeds are linked with higher risk. Using anonymised primary-care veterinary data from the VetCompass Programme, this study aimed to report the frequency, demographic risk factors and clinical management for skin fold dermatitis in the UK. Risk factor analysis used random effects multivariable logistic regression modelling. From a study population of 905,553 dogs, the one-year period prevalence in dogs overall was 0.37% (95% CI 0.35–0.39). Diagnosis was supported by laboratory testing in 4.21% cases. Systemic antibiosis was used in 42.30% cases. Compared with crossbreed dogs, the most highly predisposed breeds were English Bulldog (odds ratio [OR] 49.07, 95% CI 37.79–63.70), French Bulldog (OR 25.92, 95% CI 19.62–34.26,) and Pug (OR 16.27, 95% CI 12.20–21.69). The most protected breeds were Yorkshire Terrier (OR 0.14, 95% CI 0.03–0.56), Border Collie (OR 0.31, 95% CI 0.11–0.84), Jack Russell Terrier (OR 0.53, 95% CI 0.30–0.92) and Labrador Retriever (OR 0.57, 95% CI 0.35–0.93). This study adds further evidence to the welfare concerns around high popularity of dog breeds with extreme conformations. The three breeds with by far the highest odds of skin fold dermatitis represent an extreme brachycephalic conformation.
Identification of psychoeducation needs and an intervention response for pre-symptomatic Huntington’s disease. People who are aware that they are gene-positive for Huntington’s disease (HD) may face an array of personal, relationship, social, financial and employment challenges prior to the onset of the disease. These challenges have been associated with increased psychological problems such as anxiety and depression. Information and support for people with pre-symptomatic HD is indicated, but there is a scarcity of research and service models to inform psychological interventions. We trialled an intervention strategy involving psychoeducation forums designed specifically for pre-symptomatic HD. In phase I of the study, we asked people with pre-symptomatic HD to identify their uppermost needs for information. Phase II involved the delivery of this information via a series of forums. The forums also provided an opportunity for interaction among the participants. Three forums were attended by 88 people with pre-symptomatic HD and significant others. Analysis of post-forum feedback questionnaires indicated high levels of satisfaction with the forums’ structure, content and relevance, and notably, the pre-symptomatic specificity of focus. Additional qualitative data from recordings of forum discussion groups revealed that participants greatly valued the opportunity to meet similar others, and share their concerns and strategies for addressing these concerns. There was an abundance of requests for more forums on a wide range of relevant topics. It is recommended that this model of intervention may be of value for implementation in other HD services or community groups.
Optimal sizing of distributed generation placed on radial distribution systems. Distribution network planning identifies the least cost network investment that satisfies load growth requirements without violating any system and operational constraints. Power injections from distributed generation change network power flows, modifying energy losses. Determining appropriate location and optimal size of distributed generation with respect to network configuration and load distribution in the feeder is main challenge in the changing regulatory and economic scenarios. Among the benefits of distributed generation is the reduction in active power losses, which can improve the system performance; reliability, and efficiency. In this article, the multi-location distributed generation placement problem aims to minimize the total active power loss of radial distribution networks using a genetic algorithm based solution algorithm. This technical benefit of energy savings due to the reduction in active power loss can also be translated into economic benefits. The loss sensitivity to the change in active power injection is used in selecting candidate location(s) for installation of distributed generation devices. A comparison of the results for loss reduction and savings with other reported methods show the effectiveness of the proposed method.
Proposed research on social perception of marker-assisted selection and its role in the forests of British Columbia. The forest industry is a major player in the provincial economy, provides a significant contribution to government revenue, and accounts for 3% of British Columbia's GDP. However, with the reduction of housing starts in the US in 2006, the economic crisis of 2008, a steady decline in newsprint demand, and the Mountain Pine Beetle epidemic, the provincial and federal governments have searched for ways to help transform the forest industry through innovation, improved environmental performance, and new markets. One such investment has been in marker-assisted selection (MAS), which is a genomic-based biotechnological tool that allows desired traits to be flagged on the genome. Since MAS is a new genomic tool to the forest industry, it is necessary to survey silviculture stakeholders in BC on their perception of this resource to tree breeders, its perceived use, and the context for which it should be implemented. If it is a tool whose implementation is perceived positively, it would significantly reduce the cycle of the tree breeding process, as it allows for the early selection of genotypic traits. Moreover, it would allow tree breeders to more efficiently and accurately select for improved wood qualities, growth rates, and resistance to pests, diseases, and climate change.
Effects of Complex Anti-Fungal Agents Biocontrolling Fusarium Wilt on Banana and Its Microbiological Mechanism. 【Objective】Worldwidely, banana production is severely hindered by banana Fusarium wilt, a devastating soil-borne disease caused by Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. cubense (Foc). With no widely adopted effective methods available to control or prevent the disease, it causes serious economic losses every year. In this study, complex biocontrol fungal agents were introduced and effects of their application preventing banana Fusarium wilt and potential mechanisms were explored, in an attempt to provide certain references for controlling disease on the large field scale.【Method】A pot experiment, lasting for 2 seasons were conducted and designed to have three groups of pots, namely, CK (no controlling agent applied), NFP (NFP for application of a complex anti-fungal agent prepared by combining non-pathogenic Fusarium oxysporumsp. and Paecilomycessp. in 1:1 ratio), and NFPT (application of a complex anti-fungal agents prepared by combining non-pathogenic Fusarium oxysporum sp., Paecilomyce sp. and Trichoderma sp. in 9:9:4 ratio) for comparison between the pots for effects of the applications controlling banana Fusarium wilt and effects on soil microbial diversity. The Illumina Miseq high-throughput sequencing platform was used to analyze bacterial 16SrRNA gene and fungal ITS regions, the real-time fluorescence quantification PCR (RT-qPCR) was to determine number of pathogens in the soil. 【Result】Applications of the complex fungal agents (NFP and NFPT) have good effects of controlling banana Fusarium wilt disease, with control efficiency being 43% and 48%, respectively, and improve richness and diversity of bacteria and fungi. Principal coordinate analysis (PCoA) based on Bray-curtis distance matrix shows that significant differences in composition of the bacterial and fungal communities exist between the pots applied with the complex fungal agents and the pots in CK. The first principal component (PC1) explains 29.45% and 43.14% of the variability in the bacterial and fungal communities, respectively, and differs sharply between the treatment pots and the CK pots in composition of the overall bacterial and fungal communities. The microbes (non-pathogenic Fusarium oxysporum sp., Paecilomyce sp. and Trichoderma sp.) introduced into the soil are found quite limited in survivability in this study, and their abundance has only a marginal direct effect on the number of F. oxysporum and disease severity of the Fusarium wilt disease. However, they suppress the disease by altering composition of the soil microbiome. In particular, application of the complex fungal agents (NFP and NFPT) increases relative abundances of the beneficial indigenous microbial groups, such as Marmoricola, Nocardioides, Nonomuraea, norank_c__Acidobacteria, DS-100 and norank_f__Blastocatellaceae__Subgroup_4. Their relative abundances are good indicators of the disease suppression effect and may play a keystone role in the process of the complex fungal agents suppressing banana Fusarium wilt disease. 【Conclusion】 In a word, application of the complex fungal agents (NFP and NFPT) significantly reduces the banana Fusarium wilt disease severity index. All the findings presented above show that relative abundance of the introduced non-pathogenic Fusarium oxysporum sp., Paecilomyce sp. and Trichoderma sp. has only a marginal effect on F. oxysporum. In contrast, the changes in abundance and community structures of the bacteria and fungi after application of the agents are the key factors suppressing the disease. Application of the agents stimulates the potential beneficial indigenous microbial groups that are significantly and negatively related to banana Fusarium wilt disease severity index. Thus, the effect of the complex fungal agents suppressing the disease seemed to be a joint one of the actual antagonism of the introduced microbes with the pathogens and their promoting growth of beneficial indigenous microbial groups.
Cloning of an H+-PPase gene from Thellungiella halophila and its heterologous expression to improve tobacco salt tolerance. An H+-pyrophosphatase (PPase) gene named TsVP involved in basic biochemical and physiological mechanisms was cloned from Thellungiella halophila. The deduced translation product has similar characteristics to H +-PPases from other species, such as Arabidopsis and rice, in terms of bioinformation. The heterologous expression of TsVP in the yeast mutant ena1 suppressed Na+ hypersensitivity and demonstrated the function of TsVP as an H+-PPase. Transgenic tobacco overexpressing TsVP had 60% greater dry weight than wild-type tobacco at 300 mM NaCl and higher viability of mesophyll protoplasts under salt shock stress conditions. TsVP and AVP1, another H+-PPase from Arabidopsis, were heterologously expressed separately in both the yeast mutant ena1 and tobacco. The salt tolerance of TsVP or AVP1 yeast transformants and transgenic tobacco were improved to almost the same level. The TsVP transgenic tobacco lines TL3 and TL5 with the highest H+-PPase hydrolytic activity were studied further. These transgenic tobacco plants accumulated 25% more solutes than wild-type plants without NaCl stress and 20-32% more Na+ under salt stress conditions. Although transgenic tobacco lines TL3 and TL5 accumulated more Na+ in leaf tissues, the malondialdehyde content and cell membrane damage were less than those of the wild type under salt stress conditions. Presumably, compartmentalization of Na+ in vacuoles reduces its toxic effects on plant cells. This result supports the hypothesis that overexpression of H +-PPase causes the accumulation of Na+ in vacuoles instead of in the cytoplasm and avoids the toxicity of excessive Na+ in plant cells.
Power and time dependent microwave assisted fabrication of silver nanoparticles decorated cotton (SNDC) fibers for bacterial decontamination. Plasmonic nanoparticles (NPs) such as silver and gold have fascinating optical properties due to their enhanced optical sensitivity at a wavelength corresponding to their surface plasmon resonance (SPR) absorption. Present work deals with the fabrication of silver nanoparticles decorated cotton (SNDC) fibers as a cheap and efficient point of contact disinfectant. SNDC fibers were fabricated by a simple microwave assisted route. The microwave power and irradiation time were controlled to optimize size and density of silver nanoparticles (SNPs) on textile fibers. As prepared cotton fabric was characterized for ATR-FTIR, UV-VIS diffuse reflectance, SEM and TEM investigations. Size of SNPs as well as total density of silver atoms on fabric gets increased with the increase of microwave power from 100 W to 600 W. The antibacterial efficacy of SNPs extracted from SNDC fibers was found to be more effective against Gram-negative bacteria than Gram-positive bacteria with MIC 38.5 ± 0.93 μg/mL against Salmonella typhimurium MTCC-98 and 125 ± 2.12 μg/mL against Staphylococcus aureus MTCC-737, a linear correlation coefficient with R2 ranging from ~0.928-0.935 was also observed. About > 50% death cells were observed through Propidium Iodide (PI) internalization after treatment of SNPs extracted from SNDC fibers with concentration 31.25 μg/mL. Generation of ROS and free radical has also been observed which leads to cell death. Excellent Escherichia coli deactivation efficacy suggested that SNDC fibers could be used as potentially safe disinfectants for cleaning of medical equipment, hand, wound, water and preservation of food and beverages.
Antifouling coatings influence both abundance and community structure of colonizing biofilms: A case study in the Northwestern Mediterranean Sea. When immersed in seawater, substrates are rapidly colonized by both micro- and macroorganisms. This process is responsible for important economic and ecological prejudices, particularly when related to ship hulls or aquaculture nets. Commercial antifouling coatings are supposed to reduce biofouling, i.e., micro- and macrofoulers. In this study, biofilms that primarily settled on seven different coatings (polyvinyl chloride [PVC], a fouling release coating [FRC], and five self-polishing copolymer coatings [SPC], including four commercial ones) were quantitatively studied, after 1 month of immersion in summer in the Toulon Bay (Northwestern Mediterranean Sea, France), by using flow cytometry (FCM), microscopy, and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis. FCM was used after a pretreatment to separate cells from the biofilm matrix, in order to determine densities of heterotrophic bacteria, picocyanobacteria, and pico- and nanoeukaryotes on these coatings. Among diatoms, the only microphytobenthic class identified by microscopy, Licmophora, Navicula, and Nitzschia were determined to be the dominant taxa. Overall, biocide-free coatings showed higher densities than all other coatings, except for one biocidal coating, whatever the group of microorganisms. Heterotrophic bacteria always showed the highest densities, and diatoms showed the lowest, but the relative abundances of these groups varied depending on the coating. In particular, the copper-free SPC failed to prevent diatom settlement, whereas the pyrithione-free SPC exhibited high picocyanobacterial density. These results highlight the interest in FCM for antifouling coating assessment as well as specific selection among microbial communities by antifouling coatings.
A Comprehensive Review on Microalgae-Based Biorefinery as Two-Way Source of Wastewater Treatment and Bioresource Recovery. In the past few years, microalgae have gained huge recognition from the scientific community due to their potential applications in the production of a broad array of bio-based products varying from biofuels to nanoparticles. Due to their elevated growth rate, high tolerance to various types of abiotic stresses, and complex metabolic capacity, microalgae can be used as promising tools for the attainment of a circular bioeconomy. Moreover, they can simply utilize nutrients from wastewater for biorefinery purposes, resulting in resource recovery coupled with wastewater treatment. However, due to their sub-optimal yields and high production costs, microalgae-based bio-products have not yet been commercialized. This review provides insights into the employment of microalgae as an efficient bioresource for the treatment of wastewater with simultaneous enactment as a biorefinery to produce biofuels, biochar, bioplastic, fertilizers, and other high-value bioproducts. Furthermore, the application of microalgal nanoparticles in wastewater treatment and prospects for genetic modification of microalgae for enhanced biorefinery capabilities have also been briefly highlighted.
Population structure and incidence of the stolbur phytoplasma vector Hyalesthes obsoletus (Cixiidae) among geographic regions in Switzerland. The dissemination of stolbur phytoplasma (16Sr-XIIA group)-induced yellows diseases depends on the dispersal biology and host plant fidelity of the planthopper vector Hyalesthes obsoletus (Hemiptera: Cixiidae). We analysed the degree of these two properties in H. obsoletus by studying its population genetic structure and stolbur infection rates relative to the two major host plants, Convolvolus arvensis and Urtica dioica, in order to infer relevant divisions for stolbur epidemiology in Swiss viticultural regions. Three regional populations with the potential to determine stolbur epidemiology in distinct ways were identified. First, populations associated with U. dioica in northern Switzerland were most related to genetically distinct U. dioica host race populations identified previously in Germany. Second, populations in central and southwest Switzerland were undifferentiated relative to host plant and likely have wider stolbur transmission breadths than the northern specialized populations. Third, populations in south of the Alps (Ticino) were undifferentiated relative to host plant but geographically isolated from other Swiss regions, thus implying separate population dynamics in this area. The knowledge of these three distinct epidemiological cycles will help to adapt management programmes against stolbur diseases in Swiss vineyards.
Deploying public charging stations for electric vehicles on urban road networks. This paper explores how to optimally locate public charging stations for electric vehicles on a road network, considering drivers' spontaneous adjustments and interactions of travel and recharging decisions. The proposed approach captures the interdependency of different trips conducted by the same driver by examining the complete tour of the driver. Given the limited driving range and recharging needs of battery electric vehicles, drivers of electric vehicles are assumed to simultaneously determine tour paths and recharging plans to minimize their travel and recharging time while guaranteeing not running out of charge before completing their tours. Moreover, different initial states of charge of batteries and risk-taking attitudes of drivers toward the uncertainty of energy consumption are considered. The resulting multi-class network equilibrium flow pattern is described by a mathematical program, which is solved by an iterative procedure. Based on the proposed equilibrium framework, the charging station location problem is then formulated as a bi-level mathematical program and solved by a genetic-algorithm-based procedure. Numerical examples are presented to demonstrate the models and provide insights on public charging infrastructure deployment and behaviors of electric vehicles.
Thermal energy management optimization of solar thermal energy system based on small parabolic trough collectors for bitumen maintaining on heat process. Solar energy integration in heat consuming processes is a promising replacement for fossil energy. We are interested in a small Solar Parabolic Trough Collectors field combined with a sensible heat storage reservoir. Unfortunately, such a system has a higher cost than fossil energy and is challenging to optimize. Therefore, this work's main objective is to provide an optimized design and management to minimize energy cost (EC) and maximize renewable energy utilization fraction (REF). This study is done by optimizing the sizing and the thermal energy flow management of a hybrid solar-fossil fuel energy system. The optimization problem is formulated based on mass and energy conservation equations, heat transfer phenomena modeling, correlations, and economic data. We resolved it by combining trial and error method, multi-node calculation procedure, and genetic algorithm. To evaluate our method, we studied a hybrid solar-fossil fuel energy system used for the bitumen heat maintaining process in Rabat region-Morocco. The evaluation considered different thermal storage capacities. Using our optimization, we reached REF ≥ 40% and EC < 0.05US$/kWh for small thermal capacities and REF ≥ 85% and EC less than 0.2US$/kWh for large thermal capacities. This is equivalent to saving, respectively, more than 0.75 and 1.5 tons of CO2 emissions/year/kW for small and large thermal storage capacities. Other important recommendations are also provided in this work.
Estimation of fuel cost curve parameters for thermal power plants using the ABC algorithm. The solution accuracy of economic dispatch problems is associated with the accuracy of the fuel cost curve parameters. Therefore, updating of these parameters is a very important issue to further improve the final accuracy of economic dispatch problems. Estimating the parameters of the fuel cost curve may be the best solution for this issue. This paper presents an application of the artificial bee colony (ABC) algorithm to estimate the fuel cost curve parameters of thermal power plants. In the estimation problem, 1st-, 2nd-, and 3rd-order fuel cost functions are used, and the estimation problem is formulated as an optimization one. The ABC algorithm is used to solve this optimization problem by minimizing the total error in the estimated parameters. In this study, in order to evaluate the performance of the ABC algorithm, it is tested on 3 different cases that have 3 different fuel cost types, such as coal, oil, and gas. The results obtained from the proposed method are compared with the genetic algorithm, particle swarm optimization, and least square error methods reported previously in the literature. The results show that the ABC algorithm is stronger than the others at solving such a problem.
Inline wireless mobile sensors and fog nodes placement for leakage detection in water distribution systems. Burst or leakage in drinkable water distribution system has occurred frequently in recent years, causing severe damages, economic loss, and long-lasting society impact. A viable solution is to use agile inline mobile sensors to detect and so as to mitigate the burst or leakage. Distinguishing from online fixed sensors, mobile sensors can swim freely along the piles in water distribution network, thus giving a more precise detection. To combat the low power, low computation, and low communication capability of mobile sensors, the newly emerged fog computing provides a promising means to gather and preprocess the sensing data. In practice, due to the budget limitation, we can deploy a limited number of sensors and fog nodes in the system. This introduces a challenging problem on how to deploy them in the system, ie, sensor and fog node placement. We first formulate mobile sensor placement (MSP) as a path cover problem and prove it as NP-complete, and then we propose a customized genetic algorithm and a mixed greedy algorithm to solve MSP and fog node placement, respectively. The correctness and efficiency of the proposed algorithm are illustrated by a comprehensive experiment. Moreover, some critical factors, eg, sensor battery lifetime and movement pattern, are all extensively investigated and the results show the coverage ratio is sensitive to these factors.
Optimal planning and performance estimation of renewable energy model for isolated hilly Indian area. Indian hilly areas are blessed with a lot of potentials of renewable energy sources, yet their residents are facing the problem of power unavailability. This makes their life even more difficult in these isolated areas and creates a hindrance in their holistic development. In this paper, an optimized solar photo voltaic (SPV)/wind energy conversion(WEC)/biogas generator (BGG)/biomass generator (BMG)/micro hydropower system (MHPS)/battery based integrated renewable energy model(IREM) is suggested for satisfying the energy need of different load sectors of the Mori Block, Uttarakashi district, Uttarakhand State, India. An extensive investigation has been done for accessing the demand and potential of locally available renewable energy sources. Genetic Algorithm (GA) technique has been utilized for optimizing various energy cost and emission parameters such as; cost of energy (CE), cost of generation (CG), cost of total energy (COTE), and CO2 emission. The suggested energy model is not only ensures the availability of reliable and economic power supply but also significantly limits the environmental degradation caused by the diesel generator operation in terms of CO2 emission. Further, the suggested optimization technique is also compared with other techniques for establishing its effectiveness in the field of isolated hilly areas electrification and holistic development.
Improving artificial intelligence models accuracy for monthly streamflow forecasting using grey Wolf optimization (GWO) algorithm. Monthly streamflow forecasting is required for short- and long-term water resources management especially in extreme events such as flood and drought. Therefore, there is need to develop a reliable and precise model for streamflow forecasting. The precision of Artificial Intelligence (AI) models can be improved by using hybrid AI models which consist of coupled models. Therefore, the chief aim of this study is to propose efficient hybrid system by integrating Grey Wolf Optimization (GWO) algorithm with Artificial Intelligence (AI) models. 130 years of monthly historical natural streamflow data will be used to evaluate the performance of the proposed modelling technique. Quantitative performance indicators will be introduced to evaluate the validity of the integrated models; in addition to that, comprehensive analysis will be conducted between the predicted and the observed streamflow. The results show the integrated AI with GWO outperform the standard AI methods and can make better forecasting during training and testing phases for the monthly inflow in all input cases. This finding reveals the superiority of GWO meta-heuristic algorithm in improving the accuracy of the standard AI in forecasting the monthly inflow.
The psychic costs of empathic engagement: Personal and demographic predictors of genetic counselor compassion fatigue. Empathic connection with one's patients is essential to genetic counselor clinical practice. However, repeatedly engaging with distressed patients may cause compassion fatigue, a phenomenon characterized as feeling overwhelmed by experiencing patients' suffering. In order to extend findings of an initial qualitative study, we surveyed 222 genetic counselors about their compassion fatigue and factors that predict its occurrence. Multiple regression analysis identified seven significant predictors accounting for 53.7% of the variance in compassion fatigue. Respondents at higher risk of compassion fatigue were more likely to report being burned out, using self-criticism and giving up to manage stress, experiencing a greater variety of distressing clinical events, having larger patient caseloads, relying on religion as a coping strategy, having no children, and seeking support to manage stress. Respondents also provided critical incidents regarding their compassion fatigue and themes in these incidents are described. Practice and research recommendations are provided.
Heat management for hydrogen production by high temperature steam electrolysis. Many research and development projects throughout the world are devoted to sustainable hydrogen production processes. Low-temperature electrolysis, when consuming electricity produced without greenhouse gas emissions, is a sustainable process, though having limited efficiency. The performance of electrolysis processes can be improved by functioning at high temperature (high-temperature electrolysis, HTE). This leads to a reduction in energy consumption but requires some of the energy necessary for the dissociation of water to be in the form of thermal energy, and the ability to recover some of the heat contained in the outlet products of the electrolysis. Heat would be obtained by coupling the process either to a high-temperature reactor (HTR) or to a geothermal source. A techno-economic optimisation of the upper heat exchanger network in the HTE process was conducted. We chose the method of optimisation using genetic algorithms. As expected, the optimised heat exchanger networks appear to differ depending on the heat source that is used. Partly due to very different unit costs for thermal energy, the contributions of the investment costs are really different. We may also note that the cost of the input heat is increased by 10% when coupling the system to a HTR, whereas it is more than doubled in the geothermal case.
MabsBase: A Mycobacterium abscessus Genome and Annotation Database. Summary:Mycobacterium abscessus is a rapidly growing non-tuberculous mycobacterial species that has been associated with a wide spectrum of human infections. As the classification and biology of this organism is still not well understood, comparative genomic analysis on members of this species may provide further insights on their taxonomy, phylogeny, pathogenicity and other information that may contribute to better management of infections. The MabsBase described in this paper is a user-friendly database providing access to whole-genome sequences of newly discovered M. abscessus strains as well as resources for whole-genome annotations and computational predictions, to support the expanding scientific community interested in M. abscessus research. The MabsBase is freely available at .
Databases and the grid: Who challenges whom? Extended abstract. An overview of e-Science and its data requirements exposes a number of challenges and opportunities. The Grid is an attempt to build a virtual abstract operating system, over an arbitrarily large globally distributed collection of heterogeneous resources. The Grid models of authentification, authorisation and accounting, aspire to delivering a single sign-on mechanism for access to this global computer. These models also support dynamic sharing and virtual organisations. The emerging model of composition is based on web services. Has the database research community done this already? Does the DBMS we have today already fit as components in this 'global' machine? Those DBMS contain many of the resources scientists use, and the scientists want more of them, with even more data. There are more research questions than answers so far, and this talk will seek to engage the Database community in addressing them. Digital data are now fundamental to all branches of science and engineering; they play a major role in medical research and diagnosis, and underpin business and governmental decision processes. Increasingly these data are organised as shared and structured collections, which are held in databases, in structured documents and in structured assemblies of binary files. The advent of ubiquitous Internet computing and the scale of modern challenges, such as deciphering the function of all the genes in a large number of species, from bacteria to crops, farm animals and humans, has led to widespread collaboration in the creation, curation, publication, management and exploitation of these structured collections. Although individual collections are typically specialized to hold data of interest to particular communities, substantial advances can be achieved by combining information from multiple data resources. For example, astronomers are building virtual observatories, where data collected at different frequencies, X-ray, radio, optical, infrared, etc., and at different times, can be conveniently combined to discover new properties of the universe. Similarly, functional genomics requires comparison between species, integration with protein biochemistry and crystallography databases, laboratory phenotypical data and population studies. Almost every application involves the execution of computational models or computationally demanding analyses using data from diverse sources. These diverse structured collections are geographically distributed, hosted on a variety of platforms and administered independently according to differing policies. As they increase in scale and number it becomes impractical to arrange their integration by taking local copies or by constructing ad hoc integration schemes. The Grid provides a platform that potentially enables a systematic approach to this integration. It can support authentication and authorisation, resource discovery, data transmission, process creation and scheduling, and dynamic binding across heterogeneous platforms. These facilities could form a consistent foundation for systematic data access and integration that would be a significant advance over current practice, where each environmental requirement of an integration scheme has to be handled separately on each platform. The Grid's designers and implementers need to consider data access and integration as a primary application target for two reasons. Firstly, a great many of the applications of the Grid include a significant data access and integration requirement. Virtually every scientific, engineering, medical and decision-support application depends on accessing distributed heterogeneous collections of structured data. Secondly, the Grid itself uses many structured data collections for its own operation and administration. As Grid technology becomes more sophisticated and autonomic, the number, volume and diversity of these collections will increase. It is therefore imperative that Grid designers and developers support and use systematic data access and integration methods.
Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus: A growing risk in the hospital and in the community. Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus is a common and continuously growing cause of nosocomial and community-acquired infections. The type, disease severity, and clinical outcomes of these infections, as well as the genotypic and susceptibility patterns of the bacteria differ according to the setting in which the infection occurs - a healthcare facility or the community setting. The incidence of these infections in the community setting has been growing consistently in the past decade or so. In addition, resistance to the many current antibiotics used to treat these infections is also growing, further complicating management. Rapid-diagnosis tests and new therapeutic agents are constantly under investigation. The authors review the current understanding of the epidemiology, clinical manifestations, and management of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus infection, including the growing problem of resistance. In addition, they discuss promising diagnostic and therapeutic alternatives, as well as new control strategies to prevent its transmission or the development of infection among carriers.
Population structure and recent temporal changes in genetic variation in Eurasian otters from Sweden. The Eurasian otter (Lutra lutra) population in Sweden went through a drastic decline in population size between the 1950s and 1980s, caused mostly by anthropogenic factors such as high hunting pressure and the introduction of environmental toxic chemicals into the otter’s habitats. However, after the bans of PCBs and DDT in the 1970s, the population began to recover in the 1990s. This study compares microsatellite data across twelve loci from historical and contemporary otter samples to investigate whether there has been a change in population structure and genetic diversity across time in various locations throughout Sweden. The results suggest that otters in the south were more severely affected by the bottleneck, demonstrated by a decline in genetic diversity and a shift in genetic composition. In contrast, the genetic composition in otters from northern Sweden remained mostly unchanged, both in terms of population structure and diversity. This suggests that the decline was not uniform across the country. Moreover, our analyses of historical samples provide an overview of the level of genetic variation and population structure that existed prior to the bottleneck, which may be helpful for the future management and conservation of the species.
Detection rate of diarrhoea-causing Kudoa hexapunctata in Pacific bluefin tuna Thunnus orientalis from Japanese waters. Diffuse outbreaks of food poisoning with unknown aetiologies leading to diarrhoea and vomiting within a short time after ingesting flatfish (Paralichthys olivaceus), tuna (Thunnus spp.), or amberjack (Seriola dumerili) have occurred nationwide in Japan, including the Tokyo metropolitan area. In this study, we surveyed the detection rates of kudoid parasites in 12 tuna samples that caused clinical diarrhoea from 2009 to 2012; we assessed 104 samples of whole juvenile Pacific bluefin tuna (PBT, Thunnus orientalis) and 153 block samples of other tuna distributed in the Tokyo Metropolitan Central Wholesale Market. The survey revealed that more than 70% of clinical diarrhoea cases due to tuna ingestion occurred between June and September, and Kudoa hexapunctata were detected in 9 of 12 tuna samples associated with clinical diarrhoea cases. The numbers of spores and 18S ribosomal DNA (rDNA) copies per gram of fish in 8 of 9 samples were more than 1×106 spores and 1×109 copies, respectively. Market research revealed that the K. hexapunctata-positive rate in juvenile PBT from Japanese waters was 64.4% (67/104) but that in adult PBT was 10.4% (7/67). The numbers of K. hexapunctata 18S rDNA copies in 64.5% (20/31) samples and 72.7% (16/22) of <5kg fish samples collected between May and July were more than 1×109copies/g. On the other hand, kudoid parasites were not detected from 73 tuna samples except for a single sample of Thunnus albacares. Cell monolayer permeability assays performed to examine the toxicity of K. hexapunctata against Caco-2 cells revealed that the transepithelial electrical resistance (TER) in 5×107 K. hexapunctata spores decreased by 80% within 2-4h. In conclusion, K. hexapunctata was commonly detected in juvenile PBT from Japanese waters and are a likely cause of the diarrhoea outbreaks. orientalis were more than 1×109. hexapunctata of 5×107 spores were toxic for Caco-2 cells within 2-4h.
An evaluation of the potential factors affecting lifetime reproductive success in salmonids. Lifetime reproductive success (LRS), the number of offspring produced over an organism's lifetime, is a fundamental component of Darwinian fitness. For taxa such as salmonids with multiple species of conservation concern, understanding the factors affecting LRS is critical for the development and implementation of successful conservation management practices. Here, we reviewed the published literature to synthesize factors affecting LRS in salmonids including significant effects of hatchery rearing, life history, and phenotypic variation, and behavioral and spawning interactions. Additionally, we found that LRS is affected by competitive behavior on the spawning grounds, genetic compatibility, local adaptation, and hybridization. Our review of existing literature revealed limitations of LRS studies, and we emphasize the following areas that warrant further attention in future research: (1) expanding the range of studies assessing LRS across different life-history strategies, specifically accounting for distinct reproductive and migratory phenotypes; (2) broadening the variety of species represented in salmonid fitness studies; (3) constructing multigenerational pedigrees to track long-term fitness effects; (4) conducting LRS studies that investigate the effects of aquatic stressors, such as anthropogenic effects, pathogens, environmental factors in both freshwater and marine environments, and assessing overall body condition, and (5) utilizing appropriate statistical approaches to determine the factors that explain the greatest variation in fitness and providing information regarding biological significance, power limitations, and potential sources of error in salmonid parentage studies. Overall, this review emphasizes that studies of LRS have profoundly advanced scientific understanding of salmonid fitness, but substantial challenges need to be overcome to assist with long-term recovery of these keystone species in aquatic ecosystems.
Clustering using simulated annealing with probabilistic redistribution. An efficient partitional clustering technique, called SAKM-clustering, that integrates the power of simulated annealing for obtaining minimum energy configuration, and the searching capability of K-means algorithm is proposed in this article. The clustering methodology is used to search for appropriate clusters in multidimensional feature space such that a similarity metric of the resulting clusters is optimized. Data points are redistributed among the clusters probabilistically, so that points that are farther away from the cluster center have higher probabilities of migrating to other clusters than those which are closer to it. The superiority of the SAKM-clustering algorithm over the widely used K-means algorithm is extensively demonstrated for artificial and real life data sets.
Spatiotemporal Variation and Covariation of Heartwood Color in Planted Teak Wood from Ghana. Heartwood color is a complex trait that affects the economic and aesthetic value of the wood but is highly variable. How the color of the heartwood varies spatially and temporally is poorly understood. To illustrate how heartwood color varies within a tree, two opposite aspects of wood within the same tree, representing differential growth rate, were used to model the long-short axis system jointly. The color of the heartwood on the long and the short axis was considered to be two different traits. By jointly modeling the long and short axes, the correlation was examined between aspect (spatial) and contemporaneous correlations (within aspect). Spatial and temporal correlations and their interactions describe the indirect physiological, genetic, and environmental changes in wood formation with time and position in the trunk. Spatial correlations were consistently lower than temporal correlations but were positive and significant. Between the heartwood color parameters, b* showed a relatively higher spatial correlation. The results suggest that there is a spatial correlation in the long-short axis for all color parameters and in the two surfaces. Variations between aspects were not statistically significant for any color parameter. The bivariate mixed model method revealed hidden physics behind heartwood color formation. Models need to be developed to account for both spatial and temporal dependence in studies of wood property change.
Quantum dots and their potential biomedical applications in photosensitization for photodynamic therapy. Semiconductor quantum dots have received considerable interest in recent years as a result of their unique optical properties, leading to many applications in biology. This review examines their potential for photosensitization in photodynamic therapy compared with, and in combination with, conventional photosensitizing organic dyes. Photodynamic therapy is used for treating a range of malignant tumors and certain non-malignant pathologies, and conventional photosensitizers are based on organic dyes that are efficient generators of cytotoxic reactive oxygen species. By exploiting the unique optical properties of quantum dots, the conjugation of quantum dots with photosensitizers and targeting agents could provide a new class of versatile multifunctional nanoparticles for both diagnostic imaging and therapeutic applications.
Genetic search methods in air traffic control. Of primary importance to the efficient operation and profitability of an airline is adherence to its flight schedule. This paper examines that segment of air traffic control, termed traffic management adviser (TMA), which is charged with the complex task of scheduling arriving aircraft to available runways in a manner that minimizes delays and satisfies safety constraints. In particular, we investigate the effectiveness and efficiency of using genetic search methods to support the scheduling decisions made by TMA. Four different genetic search methods are tested on TMA problems suggested by recent work at the NASA Ames Research Center. For problems of realistic size, optimal or near-optimal assignments of aircraft to runways are achieved in real time. This paper reports on the application of genetic search algorithms to solve certain complexities associated with air traffic control. Air traffic control is an important practical problem that is difficult to solve by other methods because of non-convex, non-linear, or non-analytic characteristics. Four genetic search algorithms are applied, with consistent advantage being demonstrated by an algorithm based on genetic programming functions. Good results are achieved, with evidence that solutions can be achieved in real time.
Arguing against the proposed definition changes of PD. As members of the Lewy Body Dementia Association Scientific Advisory Council, we aim to address some of the issues raised in the article titled “Time to Redefine PD? Introductory Statement of the MDS Task Force on the Definition of Parkinson's Disease.” In particular, we suggest that the 1-year rule distinguishing Parkinson's disease dementia from dementia with Lewy bodies is worth maintaining because it serves an important purpose in clinical practice and clinical and basic science research and when helping the lay community understand the complexity of these different clinical phenotypes. Furthermore, we believe that adding an additional diagnostic label, “PD (dementia with Lewy bodies subtype),” will confuse rather than clarify the distinction between dementia with Lewy bodies and PD or PD dementia, and will not improve management or expedite therapeutic development. We present arguments supporting our contentions.
Posterior capsule opacification: What's in the bag?. Cataract, a clouding of the lens, is the most common cause of blindness in the world. It has a marked impact on the wellbeing and productivity of individuals and has a major economic impact on healthcare providers. The only means of treating cataract is by surgical intervention. A modern cataract operation generates a capsular bag, which comprises a proportion of the anterior capsule and the entire posterior capsule. The bag remains in situ, partitions the aqueous and vitreous humours, and in the majority of cases, houses an intraocular lens (IOL). The production of a capsular bag following surgery permits a free passage of light along the visual axis through the transparent intraocular lens and thin acellular posterior capsule. Lens epithelial cells, however, remain attached to the anterior capsule, and in response to surgical trauma initiate a wound-healing response that ultimately leads to light scatter and a reduction in visual quality known as posterior capsule opacification (PCO). There are two commonly-described forms of PCO: fibrotic and regenerative. Fibrotic PCO follows classically defined fibrotic processes, namely hyperproliferation, matrix contraction, matrix deposition and epithelial cell trans-differentiation to a myofibroblast phenotype. Regenerative PCO is defined by lens fibre cell differentiation events that give rise to Soemmerring's ring and Elschnig's pearls and becomes evident at a later stage than the fibrotic form. Both fibrotic and regenerative forms of PCO contribute to a reduction in visual quality in patients. This review will highlight the wealth of tools available for PCO research, provide insight into our current knowledge of PCO and discuss putative management of PCO from IOL design to pharmacological interventions.
Effects of tillage systems on microbial structure and activity at microaggregate level. The knowledge of the distribution of microorganisms and the enzymatic activitiy at the level of soil fractions aggregates would contribute to a better understanding of the ecosystemic services of the soil. The objective of this work was to determine if two of the most relevant microbial groups, fungi and bacteria, and the biological activity of the soil measured as a respiratory profile induced by substrates and/or the activity of extracellular enzymes, were modified by differential tillage systems, and if that modification was reproduced at the microaggregate level of the soil. Two agricultural farming practices were compared: no-tillage and conventional tillage. The studies were replicated in soils of two different environmentally sites of the Pampean region. The samples were wet sieved, obtaining the following fractions of aggregates: 2000-63, 63-20, 20-2 and 2-0.1 μm. The abundance of bacteria and fungi was estimated by qPCR, finding different abundances according to the size of the aggregates. The physiological profiles at the community level were differentiated according to the aggregates size independently of the tillage management and the sampled site. On the contrary, at the level of aggregates, the enzymatic profiles were differentiated more by soil tillage than by the size of the fraction. These results allow us to suggest that soil ecosystemic services are the result of an integration of the physical structure at the level of aggregates and their own biochemical activities.
A Qualitative Study of Violence Against Women after the Recent Disasters of Iran. Introduction Violence against women (VAW) is one of the most widespread violations of human rights and a major barrier to achieving gender equality. Violence against women is increased in disaster-stricken communities. Violence experiences, cases, and lessons-learned concerning Iran's disasters have not been investigated, documented, or shared so far. To fill this knowledge gap, this qualitative study aimed to explore types of VAW and girls after the recent quakes and floods in Iran. Problem The objective for this study was exploring the manifestations of VAW after the natural disasters in Iran. Methods A qualitative approach was used for this study. Data were collected by in-depth, unstructured interviews and field observations in three affected regions of Iran, including East Azerbaijan, Bushehr, and Mazandaran. A total of 15 participants, eight damaged women as well as seven key informants, were interviewed. A content analysis using Graneheim approach was performed for analyzing transcribed interviews. Results Two main themes were extracted from data, including domestic violence and violence within community. The first theme included three categories: physical, psychological, and sexual violence. Psychological violence and sexual harassment were two categories of violence within the community concept. Conclusion Different types of violence emerged from the present research that can be anticipated and integrated into future disaster medicine plans, public health reforms, and national rules of Iran. Improving women's knowledge on their rights to have a life without violence, and participation of both women and men in violence reduction projects, can be considered in all disaster management phases. Sohrabizadeh S.
Industrial tomato lines: Morphological properties and productivity. The tomato is the second most produced vegetable in the world, with significant participation in the human diet. In addition, the production of tomatoes generates jobs and family income. The availability of improved cultivars that provide greater profitability to the producer and satisfactorily meets the needs of the fresh fruit market and the processing industry becomes imperative due to its importance. Therefore, this study aimed to characterize and select industrial tomato lines in regard to fruit yield, number of leaf branches, and number of flower racemes (NFR). The experiment was conducted in 2014 in the experimental area of the Federal University of Goiás (Universidade Federal de Goiás). The design was a randomized block design with four replicates and 25 genotypes. The number of leaf branches (NB), NFR, and fruit productivity were evaluated. The results were analyzed using analysis of variance and the means compared by the Tukey test. A difference was observed (P ≤ 0.01) for all traits analyzed. The NB and NFR were related, where more branches promoted an increase in NFR and thus the productivity increases. In addition, a greater number of fruits implied in smaller fruit size, and consequently lower fruit mass. The lowest number of fruit per plant caused increased fruit size and mass. The lines CVR 1, CVR 3, CVR 4, CVR 5, CVR 21, and CVR 22 were suitable for genetic enhancement of tomato and provided the greatest productivity.
Toxicological effects of clofibric acid and diclofenac on plasma thyroid hormones of an Indian major carp, Cirrhinus mrigala during short and long-term exposures. In the present investigation, the toxicity of most commonly detected pharmaceuticals in the aquatic environment namely clofibric acid (CA) and diclofenac (DCF) was investigated in an Indian major carp Cirrhinus mrigala. Fingerlings of C. mrigala were exposed to different concentrations (1, 10 and 100μgL-1) of CA and DCF for a period of 96h (short term) and 35 days (long term). The toxic effects of CA and DCF on thyroid hormones (THs) such as thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), thyroxine (T4) and triiodothyronine (T3) levels were evaluated. During the short and long-term exposure period TSH level was found to be decreased at all concentrations of CA (except at the end of 14th day in 1 and 10μgL-l and 21st day in 1μgL-l) whereas in DCF exposed fish TSH level was found to be increased when compared to control groups. T4 level was found to be decreased at 1 and 100μgL-l of CA exposure at the end of 96h. However, T4 level was decreased at all concentrations of CA and DCF during long-term (35 days) exposure period. Fish exposed to all concentrations of CA and DCF had lower level of T3 in both the treatments. These results suggest that both CA and DCF drugs induced significant changes (P<0.01 and P<0.05) on thyroid hormonal levels of C. mrigala. The alterations of these hormonal levels can be used as potential biomarkers in monitoring of pharmaceutical drugs in aquatic organisms.
Fumaric acid: production and separation. Fumaric acid is a valuable compound used in foods, beverages, detergents, animal feed, pharmaceuticals and miscellaneous industrial products. It is produced on a large scale by the petrochemical route but the current tendency is towards implementing “green production” and environmental friendly technologies like biotechnological production of fumaric acid using low-cost raw materials. In this context, numerous studies focus on improving the fermentation process not only by using renewable raw material and genetically modified microorganisms, but also by developing and applying different downstream techniques for easy recovery of fumaric acid from the fermented broth. This review presents the main methods for production and separation of fumaric acid, highlighting the advantages and disadvantages of these and the potential economic impact in industry.
Removal of nickel(II) from wastewater using a zeolite-packed anaerobic bioreactor: Bacterial diversity and community structure shifts. In recent years, overexploited industrialization and urbanization activities have led to significant amounts of heavy metals released into the environment. Metal ion contamination of water, especially with toxic metals such as nickel(II) [Ni(II)], which is extensively applied in the electroplating industry, has been a serious problem. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the Ni(II) removal from real industrial wastewater using a 2 L, lab-scale, up-flow, anaerobic, zeolite-packed bioreactor inoculated with a heterotrophic consortium as the bioadsorbent. High-throughput sequencing of 16S rRNA genes revealed significant shifts in their bacterial diversity and structural composition along the bioreactor treatment location, where the bacterial genus was dominated by Kosmotogae followed by Firmicutes as Ruminococcus and Clostridium. However, Fervidobacterium and the Geobacter genus were absent at the end of the bioreactor treatment, suggesting that they play a key role in the beginning of Ni(II) removal anaerobic treatment. The physico-chemical results revealed that the Ni(II) removal rate was 99% for 250–500 ppm metal tested, with an efficient alkalinity rate and high production of biogas, which confirmed that anaerobic digestion of microorganisms was successfully performed through the process. Finally, this anaerobic bioreactor configuration offers an accessible and ecofriendly high-rate metal removal strategy from mining and electroplating effluents.
Fox control and 1080 baiting conundrums: Time to prepare for a CRISPR solution. For many years, managing rock-wallaby colonies (Petrogale lateralis lateralis) in the Western Australian Wheatbelt seemed to be a matter of routinely exposing foxes (Vulpes vulpes) to toxic baits (sodium fluoroacetate, 1080®) laid around their rocky outcrops. Recent research has revealed that 1080 baitings are no longer a viable management option. Baiting is flawed over the long term because it does not erase the wallabies' pervasive fear of being depredated by foxes, which can still make their menacing presence felt before succumbing to poison bait. Accordingly, a 'landscape of fear' exists on all rock-wallaby sites, creating a 'virtual boundary' beyond which they fear to forage. Severe overgrazing occurs, ultimately causing population crashes, leaving behind devastated outcrops greatly diminished in carrying capacity. The fallout from this scenario produces a management conundrum. Rock-wallaby populations are unstable in the absence of fox control, and conversely, they are also unstable under long-term fox control. Management is now left with few options, and the future of the colonies remains open. Other conundrums involving bait interference and mesopredator release are described. An alternative to 1080 baiting is clearly needed. Recent developments in gene engineering (CRISPR technology) offer a solution in the foreseeable future.
Isolation of isoprene degrading bacteria from soils, development of isoA gene probes and identification of the active isoprene-degrading soil community using DNA-stable isotope probing. Emissions of biogenic volatile organic compounds (bVOCs), are an important element in the global carbon cycle, accounting for a significant proportion of fixed carbon. They contribute directly and indirectly to global warming and climate change and have a major effect on atmospheric chemistry. Plants emit isoprene to the atmosphere in similar quantities to emissions of methane from all sources and each accounts for approximately one third of total VOCs. Although methanotrophs, capable of growth on methane, have been intensively studied, we know little of isoprene biodegradation. Here, we report the isolation of two isoprene-degrading strains from the terrestrial environment and describe the design and testing of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) primers targeting isoA, the gene encoding the active-site component of the conserved isoprene monooxygenase, which are capable of retrieving isoA sequences from isoprene-enriched environmental samples. Stable isotope probing experiments, using biosynthesized (13) C-labelled isoprene, identified the active isoprene-degrading bacteria in soil. This study identifies novel isoprene-degrading strains using both culture-dependent and, for the first time, culture-independent methods and provides the tools and foundations for continued investigation of the biogeography and molecular ecology of isoprene-degrading bacteria.
Socio-ecological strategies for future sustainability a review of an internet conference. The recent upsurge in information technology has provided the international community with an easy access to professional journals (e.g. Electronic Journal of Biotechnology at  etc.), discussion groups (e.g. bioenergyγrest.org; digestionγrest.org; etc.) and recently to electronic international conferences (e.g. ICIBS;  etc.) as well as a series of biotechnological information material (e.g.  etc.) to stay in contact and receive up-to-date information in biotechnology. There is no doubt that this new technology will be more cost effective in future and reach more people in communities around the globe. This review reports on one such an electronic conference aiming at bridging the communication gap between developed and developing countries. This conference dealt with integrated biosystems and has provided an excellent forum for more than 100 active participants from all regions of the world. As has been demonstrated in this review, the conference was able to show the very different approaches towards the use of biotechnology in developed and developing countries, cold and tropical climate regions owing to their different ecological, economical and societal problems. It also demonstrated very clearly that the field of molecular genetics and/or genetic engineering is not a priority issue in developing countries, but rather the need for clean technologies, multiproduct formation through socio-economic integrated biosystems, e.g. incorporating microbial waste management into agro-industries, in human activities and their roles in creating better health conditions, a better environment and sustain development. It is hoped that this review will lead to a greater use of the electronic facilities available to inform and educate both the northern and the southern communities more readily of their needs and requirements to improve understanding and efforts for a sustainable future.
Evolutionary history constrains heat tolerance of native and exotic tropical Zingiberales. Tropical wet forest plants experience relatively stable temperatures throughout the year. However, tropical forests represent a mosaic of habitats characterized by different temperatures. Heat tolerances are expected to be adapted to temperatures specific to their habitats. Although heat tolerance of species sharing similar environments is expected to be similar, it is also possible that heat tolerance is constrained by evolutionary history because closely related species usually display similar physiologies. When exotic species are introduced to novel communities, colonization may be facilitated by their previous adaptation to high temperatures and other physiological, genetic and demographic traits, which may grant them some competitive advantage. Increasing temperatures may represent a strong environmental filter affecting community assembly, and higher heat tolerances could facilitate the persistence of exotic species in novel environments. Using a community of 32 native and 7 exotic Zingiberales species from different tropical habitats in Costa Rica, Central America, we aim to answer the following questions: (a) does evolutionary history constrain heat tolerance? (b) do plants in the same habitat display similar heat tolerances? (c) do the heat tolerances of exotic species differ from those of native species? We measured temperature-dependent changes in photosynthetic fluorescence to determine the temperature at which the first sign of damage to photosystem II is observed (T15), and the temperature at which the fluorescence of photosystem II is reduced by 50% (T50). Using a community phylogeny, we tested for phylogenetic signal in T15 and T50. In addition, we tested for differences in heat tolerance among Zingiberales from old growth, secondary forests and open areas, as well as between native and exotic species. Our results support (a) a significant phylogenetic signal (Pagel's λ) for both T15 and T50, (b) communities from open areas displayed similar photosynthetic heat tolerance compared to species from old growth and secondary forests, and (c) exotic Zingiberales are marginally tolerant to high temperatures than native species, but only for T15. Our results suggest that evolutionary history constraints heat responses of native and exotic Zingiberales in a warming world. Read the free Plain Language Summary for this article on the Journal blog.
Social media and citizen science records are important for the management of rarely sighted whales. Social media content is increasingly being validated and used as a valuable source of data within conservation science. Metadata obtained from social networking sites (SNS) can supplement knowledge and data gaps in traditional ecological monitoring programs by increasing the spatiotemporal extent of sampling. Here we consider SNS in the context of rare and threatened species, which are difficult to monitor due to their often-inaccessible habitat, or elusive and unpredictable occurrences. We focus on a recovering large whale population, as charismatic megafauna often appear on SNS and are ideal for public outreach sightings data. Southern right whales (Eubalaena australis, SRW) were once abundant throughout New Zealand waters. However, following widespread population decline during whaling, no SRW was reported around the mainland for 35 years, with the remnant population persisting only in the remote subantarctic islands. By using sightings data from 2011 to 2021 in the New Zealand Department of Conservation's (DOC) Marine Mammal Database and supplementing with crowd-sourced sightings reports made on SNS (Facebook and iNaturalist), we present evidence that SRWs are continuing to recover slowly around the mainland compared to their subantarctic breeding grounds. All sightings' data were categorised based on confidence of accuracy, for example, accompanying genetic or photographic confirmation of species identity. Sightings remain rare with only 116 sightings from both DOC and SNS sources reported over the 11-year research period (2011–2021), hindering efforts to identify key habitats and implement conservation measures. SNS sightings increased the overall number and quality of sightings. Specifically, as SNS sightings were all accompanied by images permitting confident species ID, they increased the overall quality of the dataset and provided new information on the fine-scale movement and residency times of SRW. Although opportunistic data such as these have limitations, our work suggests that the recolonisation of SRWs around mainland New Zealand has not increased in the past decade. This could reflect historic loss of matrilineal knowledge of the mainland, or it could also be an artifact of very few whales, resulting in less social aggregations frequenting the region. Citizen science and the use of SNS data are important for the continued monitoring of the New Zealand SRW population, with SNS data creating further opportunities to monitor similarly rare and data deficient populations.
Microfluidics and microbial engineering. The combination of microbial engineering and microfluidics is synergistic in nature. For example, microfluidics is benefiting from the outcome of microbial engineering and many reported point-of-care microfluidic devices employ engineered microbes as functional parts for the microsystems. In addition, microbial engineering is facilitated by various microfluidic techniques, due to their inherent strength in high-throughput screening and miniaturization. In this review article, we firstly examine the applications of engineered microbes for toxicity detection, biosensing, and motion generation in microfluidic platforms. Secondly, we look into how microfluidic technologies facilitate the upstream and downstream processes of microbial engineering, including DNA recombination, transformation, target microbe selection, mutant characterization, and microbial function analysis. Thirdly, we highlight an emerging concept in microbial engineering, namely, microbial consortium engineering, where the behavior of a multicultural microbial community rather than that of a single cell/species is delineated. Integrating the disciplines of microfluidics and microbial engineering opens up many new opportunities, for example in diagnostics, engineering of microbial motors, development of portable devices for genetics, high throughput characterization of genetic mutants, isolation and identification of rare/unculturable microbial species, single-cell analysis with high spatio-temporal resolution, and exploration of natural microbial communities.
Effects of urbanization on genetic diversity, gene flow, and population structure in the ornate box turtle (Terrapene ornata). Large-scale declines in North American box turtle (Terrapene spp.) populations have been attributed to habitat fragmentation as a result of urbanization. We compared microsatellite markers and mitochondrial control region sequences of Ornate Box Turtles (Terrapene ornata) in two populations (a natural and an urban habitat) to test two hypotheses. We hypothesized that urban populations of T. ornata experience genetic bottlenecks due to road mortality and habitat fragmentation, and that roadways represent a barrier to gene flow among turtle populations, resulting in increased fragmentation of gene pools. Both populations shared similar allelic diversity and observed heterozygosity, with eight and seven of twelve microsatellite loci exhibiting heterozygote deficiency in the natural and urban populations, respectively. The number of mitochondrial control region haplotypes in the urban population was nearly four times that of the natural population, although only one haplotype occurred in appreciable frequency in both populations. We did not detect conclusive evidence of a recent genetic bottleneck in the urban population, thereby rejecting our first hypothesis. We detected weak differentiation among populations on opposing sides of a large highway, but did not detect any evidence of population structure, thereby rejecting our second hypothesis. This study indicates that a population of T. ornata with moderate road mortality currently has high genetic diversity, moderate inbreeding, and displays some evidence of genetic differentiation, but no conclusive evidence of recent genetic bottlenecks or unique genetic clustering. We suggest this is primarily due to the species long generation time and is a positive aspect of their life-history.
Hubei Power Grid peak load regulation considering wind power transmitted by UHV network. Based on the load forecast with fuzzy period and the improved niche genetic algorithm, the peak load regulation considering the wind power transmitted by UHV network in 2015' wet season mode is researched for Hubei Power Grid according to its power consumption. With the minimum power loss as its goal and the unit ramp rate and system security as its constraints, an optimal dispatch model is established and a peak load regulation scheme of Hubei Power Grid is planed for different proportions of wind power transmitted by UHV network. Simulative result shows that, in case of wind power transmitted by UHV network in 2015' wet season mode, the peak load regulation ability of Hubei Power Grid is not sufficient and the UHV network should take part in it. Compared with traditional ones, the proposed peak load regulation scheme, on the premise of safe system operation, fully utilizes the peak load regulation capability of thermal and pumped storage units and effectively reduces the net loss.
A genetic algorithm for demand pattern and leakage estimation in a water distribution network. The sustainable management of water supply networks requires the control of physical pipe leakages, such as those due to junction obsolescence or pipe creeping. These leakages usually increase with the operating pressure, and their discharge is commonly assumed to scale with the power of the pressure. The same functional form is also employed to evaluate leakage occurring in the portion of the network downstream a node. The parameters involved in these relationships may be estimated from field experimental data. However, a sensible fluctuation in their values is observed, and therefore the definition of a suitable leakage law represents a major source of uncertainty in water network modeling. In the present paper, the estimation of the leakage law parameters is carried out simultaneously to the hourly demand pattern. To this aim, a hydraulic network model coupled to a genetic algorithm is employed to minimize the deviation between predicted and measured time series of pressure and flow at a small number of sites of the network. A field test case is analyzed to show the effectiveness of the proposed procedure.Sailing through the Late Pleistocene: Unusual historical demography of an East Asian endemic, the Chinese Hwamei (Leucodioptron canorum canorum), during the last glacial period. Pleistocene climate fluctuations shaped the patterns of genetic diversity observed in extant species. In contrast to Europe and North America where the effects of recent glacial cycles on genetic diversity have been well studied, the genetic legacy of the Late Pleistocene for East Asia, a region of great topographical complexity and presumably milder historical climate, remains poorly understood. We analysed 3.86 kb of the mitochondrial genome of 186 Chinese Hwamei birds, Leucodioptron canorum canorum, and found that contrary to the conventional expectation of population decline during cold periods (stadials), the demographic history of this species shows continuous population growth since the penultimate glacial period (about 170 000 years ago). Refugia were identified in the south, coastal regions, and northern inland areas, implying that topographic complexity played a substantial role in providing suitable habitats for the Chinese Hwamei during cold periods. Intermittent gene flow between these refugia during the warmer periods (interstadials) might have resulted in a large effective population of this bird through the last glacial period.
Optimized routing enhancement for WSN with balanced load mechanism. Wireless Sensor Networks (WSNs) provides a great support and solution in the field of wireless technologies used in the industrial application. WSN faces serious reliability and load management issue when the power management terminology is enabled to prevent the network from excessive collision. This might result into a very low Packet Delivery Ratio (PDR), reduced network lifetime and high latency. In real time environment, a sensor node may suffer failure due to dust, corrosive agents and due hard weather etc. In that case, if the load increases on sensor node, it requires a reliable sensor node which can share the load. Reliable communication and load balancing among sensor nodes saves undesired consumption in collisions, data resending and data checking. This paper focuses on developing a novel framework enhancing the features of WSN to solve the reliability issue and load balancing problem with broadcast mechanism never used before in this scenario. The proposed framework utilizes a unique combination of Genetic Algorithm-Particle Swarm Optimization and Artificial Neural Network for load balancing architecture. The proposed architecture also utilizes some features of Ad hoc network also but with new terminology so that the packet reaches to the sink in timely fashion and maximum battery and network life along with minimized delay is attained. The proposed framework is evaluated using delay, energy consumption and throughput. One of the recent research works in this area is presented by Liu, Anfeng, and the proposed framework is also compared with the results of Liu, Anfeng,  By comparing the proposed results with existing, energy consumption of proposed work is reduced with better network lifetime by using the concept of load balancing technique.
After the clinic? Researching sexual health technology in context. There is great interest in what testing, pharmaceutical, information and social media technology can do for sexual health. Much programmatic and research activity is focused on assessing how these technologies can be used to best effect. Less obvious are analyses that place technology into historical, political and real-world settings. Developing an ‘in-context’ analysis of sexual health technology, this paper draws on interviews with leading community advocates, researchers and clinicians in Australia, Canada and the UK and looks across examples, including social media, rapid HIV testing, pre-Exposure Prophylaxis for HIV and polymerase chain reaction Chlamydia testing. The analysis is framed by studies of techno-society and the dialectics of sex-affirmative advocacy with biomedical authority and attends to: the rationalistic and affective dimensions of the imaginary associated with technology; the role of technology in the re-spatialisation and re-temporalisation of the sexual health clinic; and the re-invention of technology in its real-world contexts. This in-context approach is important for: the effective implementation of new technology; strengthening the social science contribution to the field; and enriching social theory in general on life in techno-societies.
Social economic factors that affect cattle farmer’s willingness to pay for artificial insemination programs. There is a serious problem in Indonesia in the field of animal husbandry, that is the low productivity and genetic quality of cattle. To solve the problem, artificial insemination (AI) was done to improve the productivity of cattle and farmer’s income. But actually the farmer’s willingnes to pay (WTP) affects the AI programs. This research aimed to understand the social economy factors that affected beef cattle breeder’s WTP for artificial insemination programs in Barru Regency, South Sulawesi Province, Indonesia. The research was conducted from May to July 2017 in the Balusu district, South Sulawesi Province, Indonesia. The type of research is explanatory quantitative. The populations were all of the farmers that do artificial insemination in cattle in Balusu district, a total of 85 farmers. The data sources were primary data and secondary data; data types were qualitative and quantitative. Analysis of data used multiple regression analysis. The results showed that simultaneously age factors, formal education, social care, and the attitude, AI’s knowledge, business scale and extension significantly affected the farmers WTP for artificial insemination of their cattle. However, the social care factors, location, and the farmers’ attitude in separate, partial regressions were also significantly influential. So, it is necessary to increase knowledge about AI with intensity of counseling higher on Bali cattle breeder. As the conclusion, age factor, formal education, social awareness, knowledge about AI, business scale, counseling and location significantly influence the willingness to pay farmers in applying artificial insemination to Bali cattle.
Exploring bacterioplankton communities and their temporal dynamics in the rearing water of a biofloc-based shrimp (Litopenaeus vannamei) aquaculture system. Biofloc technology (BFT) has recently gained considerable attention as a sustainable method in shrimp aquaculture. In a successful BFT system, microbial communities are considered a crucial component in their ability to both improve water quality and control microbial pathogens. Yet, bacterioplankton diversity in rearing water and how bacterioplankton community composition changes with shrimp growth are rarely documented. In this study, the Pacific white shrimp, Litopenaeus vannamei was cultivated in a greenhouse-enclosed BFT system. Rearing water samples were collected on a weekly basis for 5 months (152 days) and water quality variables such as physicochemical parameters and inorganic nutrients were monitored. In parallel, 16S rRNA gene pyrosequencing was employed to investigate the temporal patterns of rearing-water microbiota. The productivity, survival rate, and feed conversion ratio were 3.2–4.4 kg/m3, 74%–89%, and 1.2–1.3, respectively, representing successful super-intensive cultures. The metataxonomic results indicated a highly dynamic bacterioplankton community, with two major shifts over the culture. Members of the phylum Planctomycetes dominated in rearing water during the early stages, while Actinobacteria dominated during the middle stages, and Chloroflexi and TM7 dominated during the late stages of culture. The bacterioplankton community fluctuated more in the beginning but stabilized as the culture progressed. Intriguingly, we observed that certain bacterioplankton groups dominated in a culture-stage-specific manner; these groups include Rhodobacteraceae, Flavobacteriaceae, Actinobacteria, and Chloroflexi, which either contribute to water quality regulation or possess probiotic potential. Altogether, our results indicate that an operationally successful BFT-based aquaculture system favors the growth and dynamics of specific microbial communities in rearing water. Our study expands the scientific understanding of the practical utilization of microbes in sustainable aquaculture. A thorough understanding of rearing-water microbiota and factors influencing their dynamics will help to establish effective management strategies.
Classical and quantum genetic optimization applied to coverage optimization for indoor access point networks. The new focus of wireless communication is moving from voice to multimedia services. There is a growing interest in providing and improving radio coverage for mobile phones, short range radios and WLANs inside buildings. The need of such coverage appears mainly in office buildings, shopping malls, train stations where the subscriber density is very high. The cost of cellular svstems and also the one of indoor wireless svstems depend highly on the number of base stations required to achieve the desired coverage for a given level of field strength. There are already numerous optimization methods published which can be applied to the optimal design of such indoor networks [7,8,9, 10,11]. The fitness function of the optimization problem has nu-merous local optimum and therefore gradient based methods can not be applied. The recently published methods use any heuristic technique for finding the optimal Access Point (AP) positions. Common draw backs of the methods are the slow convergence in a complex environment like the indoor one. The complexity of the selection procedure of a classical genetic algorithm is O(NlogN) w here .V is the size of the population. The Quantum Genetic Algorithm (QGA) exploits the power of quantum computation in order to speed up genetic procedures. While the quantum and classical genetic algorithms use the same number of generations, the QGA outperforms the classical one in identifying the high-fitness subpopulation at each generation. In QGA the classical fitness evaluation and selection procedures are replaced by a single quantum procedure. The article introduces the Quantum inspired Genetic Algorithm (QGA) for indoor access point position optimization to maximal coverage and compares with the Classical Genetic Algorithm (CGA).
Overexpression of two plastidial fatty acid desaturase genes from tree peony affects the ratio of α-linolenic acid to linoleic acid in Arabidopsis seeds. Tree peony (Paeonia section Moutan DC.) has recently been recognised as an important woody oil plant of high economic value, with its seeds containing high levels of α-linolenic acids (ALA, C18:3). Here, we identified two novel FA desaturase genes from Paeonia. rockii, designated PrFAD6 and PrFAD7. Sequence, structure, and phylogenetic analyses revealed that they share high similarity with ω-6 and ω-3 plastidial FA desaturases. qRT-PCR showed that PrFAD6 and PrFAD7 were expressed in all studied tissues, particularly high in stamen, pistil, seed and leaf. Heterologous expression of PrFAD6 in Arabidopsis resulted in a 2.3–2.9% reduction in the ratio of ALA to linoleic acid (LA, C18:2), whilst overexpression of PrFAD7 increased the ALA/LA ratio by 7.0–9.9%. Moreover, the transgenic Arabidopsis plants overexpressing PrFAD6 and PrFAD7 exhibited varied abundances of a few FA components, particularly increased C18:2 and C18:3 levels, respectively. These results support the biological role of PrFAD6 and PrFAD7 in the biosynthesis of ALA and LA in tree peony seeds. Our study is the first attempt to verify the functions of plastidial FA desaturases in tree peony and will facilitate future research and industrial utilisation of tree peony as an important oil plant.
Reproductive value and fluctuating selection in an age-structured population. Fluctuations in age structure caused by environmental stochasticity create autocorrelation and transient fluctuations in both population size and allele frequency, which complicate demographic and evolutionary analyses. Following a suggestion of Fisher, we show that weighting individuals of different age by their reproductive value serves as a filter, removing temporal autocorrelation in population demography and evolution due to stochastic age structure. Assuming weak selection, random mating, and a stationary distribution of environments with no autocorrelation, we derive a diffusion approximation for evolution of the reproductive value weighted allele frequency. The expected evolution obeys an adaptive topography defined by the long-run growth rate of the population. The expected fitness of a genotype is its Malthusian fitness in the average environment minus the covariance of its growth rate with that of the population. Simulations of the age-structured model verify the accuracy of the diffusion approximation. We develop statistical methods for measuring the expected selection on the reproductive value weighted allele frequency in a fluctuating age-structured population.
Construction of a Nano Biosensor for Cyanide Anion Detection and Its Application in Environmental and Biological Systems. We have developed a Ag@Au core-shell nanoparticle (NP)/iridium(III) complex-based sensing platform for the sensitive luminescence "turn-on" sensing of cyanide ions, an acutely toxic pollutant. The assay is based on the quenching effect of Ag@Au NPs on the emission of complex 1, but luminescence is restored after the addition of cyanide anions due to their ability to dissolve the Au shell. Our sensing platform exhibited a high sensitivity toward cyanide anions with a detection limit of 0.036 μM, and also showed high selectivity for cyanide over 10-fold excess amounts of other anions. The sensing platform was also successfully applied to monitor cyanide anions in drinking water and in living cells.
Inner-Plant economic operation of giant hydropower and benefit analysis. Nowadays, inner-plant economic operation of hydropower station has gained remarkable achievement when implemented in small and medium hydropower plants, whereas, seldom in giant hydropower plants in China. Taking peak load regulation and frequency regulation of giant hydropower plants and constraint condition of avoiding large scale output transfer into consideration, a quasi real-time output optimal distribution (QROOD) model of inner-plant of giant hydropower taking minimized water consumption as objective was established, and brought in improved spatio-temporal dynamic programming algorithm. Pubugou hydropower plant (3 600 MW) was taken as example. The results show that QROOD operation can realize considerable economic benefits, especially in reducing daily water consumption for power generation from 2.652 m3/(kW·h) to 2.585 m3/(kW·h), and increase economic benefit nearly by 2.5%. The average calculation time consumption is 0.168 s. Compared with genetic algorithm, QROOD model is an effective method to increase hydropower utilization rate of giant hydropower stations and possesses better overall optimization ability, faster calculation speed and accuracy.
Phase behavior of nanoparticles assembled by DNA linkers. The phase diagram of DNA linker mediated nanoparticle assemblies was experimentally investigated and constructed. Using small angle x-ray scattering we studied the dependence of the internal structure of assembly on two main system parameters: DNA linker length and the number of linkers per particle. The formation of a crystalline bcc phase was observed for a limited range of linker lengths, while the number of linkers per particle controlled the onset of system crystallization. The influence of linkage defects on crystalline structure was also examined.
Preconception exposure to mutagens: Medical and other exposures to radiation and chemicals. Contrary to intuition, no environmental exposure has been proved to cause human germ line mutations that manifest as heritable disease in the offspring, not among the children born to survivors of the American atomic bombs in Japan nor in survivors of cancer in childhood, adolescence, or young adulthood who receive intensive chemotherapy, radiotherapy, or both. Even the smallest of recent case series had sufficient statistical power to exclude, with the usual assumptions, an increase as small as 20 % over baseline rates. One positive epidemiologic study of a localized epidemic of Down syndrome in Hungary found an association with periconceptual exposure to a pesticide used in fish farming, trichlorfon. Current population and occupational guidelines to protect against genetic effects of ionizing radiation should continue, with the understanding they are based on extrapolations from mouse experiments and mostly on males. Presently, pre-conceptual counseling for possible germ cell mutation due to the environment can be very reassuring, at least based on, in a sense, the worst-case exposures of cancer survivors. Prudence demands further study. Future work will address the issue with total genomic sequencing and epigenomic analysis.
Study on improved secondary voltage control based on genetic algorithm. Voltage Hierarchical Control is an efficient way to coordinate the voltage control in the power system, and the control strategy of the Secondary Voltage Control is the critical part of the Voltage Hierarchical Control. Because the control devices of the secondary voltage control including devices of continuous regulation and discrete regulation, the improved optimization model for Secondary Voltage Control is adopted and calculated by genetic algorithm. The control effect is same as others control measurements. But the simulation result indicates that there are problems in this model, such as "voltage jump" and longer regulate time. In this paper, measures are put forward to resolve these questions: (1) Matching generator excitation and OLTC can resolve "voltage jump" successfully; (2) Adopting the measurement of generator (reactive power supply) control first and control equipment coordinate control secondly can resolve the question of longer regulate time. At last, the proposed method is applied to the New England 39 nodes system. It is shown that this method can achieve satisfactory controlling effort involved both constant and discrete controllers at the same time; and the feasibility of the resolve measurements of the two questions is proved.
Selenium nanoparticles induced variations in growth, morphology, anatomy, biochemistry, gene expression, and epigenetic DNA methylation in Capsicum annuum; an in vitro study. This study aimed to explore whether supplementation of the culture medium with selenium nanoparticles (nSe) can influence growth, biochemistry, expression of transcription factors, and epigenetic DNA methylation in Capsicum annuum. The seeds were grown in hormone-free MS culture medium supplemented with nSe (0, 0.5, 1, 10, and 30 mgL−1) or corresponding doses of bulk type selenate (BSe). Incorporation of nSe into the medium caused variations in morphology and growth in a manner dependent on the dose and Se type. The low doses of nSe displayed growth-promoting effects, whereas nSe at 10 and 30 mgL−1 were associated with severe toxicity and abnormality in leaf and root development. MSAP analysis confirmed the substantial variation in cytosine DNA methylation in response to the toxic dose of nSe exhibiting epigenetic modification. The nSe toxicity was associated with DNA hyper-methylations. The nSe treatments transcriptionally upregulated the bZIP1 transcription factor by an average of 3.5 folds. With a similar trend, the upregulation (mean = 9.8 folds) in the expression of the WRKY1 transcription factor resulted from the nSe application. The nSe0.5 or nSe1 treatments resulted in a significant induction (mean = 48%) in nitrate reductase activity. A high dose of nSe led to an increase in proline concentration. The nSe treatments were also associated with modifications in activities of peroxidase and catalase enzymes. Besides, the nSe utilization increased the activity of phenylalanine ammonia-lyase enzyme (mean = 76%) and concentrations of soluble phenols (mean = 51%). The toxic dose of nSe also caused abnormalities in the structure of the stem apical meristem. The nSe toxicity was also associated with inhibition in the differentiation of xylem tissues. These findings provide novel insights into the nSe-associated molecular variations in conferring the modified growth, anatomy, and metabolism.
Time series wind power forecasting based on variant Gaussian Process and TLBO. Due to the variability and stochastic nature of wind power, accurate wind power forecasting plays an important role in developing reliable and economic power system operation and control strategies. As wind variability is stochastic, Gaussian Process regression has recently been introduced to capture the randomness of wind energy. However, the disadvantages of Gaussian Process regression include its computation complexity and incapability to adapt to time varying time-series systems. A variant Gaussian Process for time series forecasting is introduced in this study to address these issues. This new method is shown to be capable of reducing computational complexity and increasing prediction accuracy. The convergence of the forecasting results is also proved. Further, a teaching learning based optimization (TLBO) method is used to train the model and to accelerate the learning rate. The proposed modelling and optimization method is applied to forecast both the wind power generation in Ireland and that from a single wind farm to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method.
A simplified model to predict and optimize energy consumption of residential buildings in the cold climate regions of Iran. In this study, energy consumption is simulated for a residential complex in the cold weather condition of Iran. For this purpose, Tabriz is selected as the representative city. The mathematical equations are suggested to connect the consumed energy (such as electricity and gas consumption) with the required parameters including ceiling insulation, wall thickness, and the window height. The validation is applied to check the results via converting the data into neural networks and employing the genetic algorithm at each level of the study. The error between the software results and also the calculation of building gas consumption is about 9.6% in September and October while the error between the regression function and the measured values was less than 6%. The results show that, in the cold weather condition, the power density of equipments and the efficiency of heating system have the most effect on the electricity and gas consumptions, respectively. Also, in the regarding weather condition, window height has negligible effect on electricity and gas consumption.
The value of selected in vitro and in silico methods to predict acute oral toxicity in a regulatory context: Results from the European Project ACuteTox. ACuteTox is a project within the 6th European Framework Programme which had as one of its goals to develop, optimise and prevalidate a non-animal testing strategy for predicting human acute oral toxicity. In its last 6months, a challenging exercise was conducted to assess the predictive capacity of the developed testing strategies and final identification of the most promising ones. Thirty-two chemicals were tested blind in the battery of in vitro and in silico methods selected during the first phase of the project. This paper describes the classification approaches studied: single step procedures and two step tiered testing strategies. In summary, four in vitro testing strategies were proposed as best performing in terms of predictive capacity with respect to the European acute oral toxicity classification. In addition, a heuristic testing strategy is suggested that combines the prediction results gained from the neutral red uptake assay performed in 3T3 cells, with information on neurotoxicity alerts identified by the primary rat brain aggregates test method. Octanol-water partition coefficients and in silico prediction of intestinal absorption and blood-brain barrier passage are also considered. This approach allows to reduce the number of chemicals wrongly predicted as not classified (LD50>2000mg/kg b.w.).
Insights into the Bacterial Diversity of the Acidic Akhtala Mine Tailing in Armenia Using Molecular Approaches. The impact of the heavy metal contamination and acidity on the bacterial community was studied in samples collected from the Akhtala copper mine tailing using molecular approaches. The bacterial community structure analysis by PCR-DGGE fingerprinting revealed an abundance of Firmicutes, Acidobacteria, and Proteobacteria in different layers of the Akhtala tailing. 454 pyrotag sequence analyses revealed that a significant part of the sequences originated from Proteobacteria (49%) and Bacteroidetes (43%). Bacterial taxa are distributed also in phyla Saccharibacteria (2%), Verrucomicrobia (1.5%), Gammatimonadetes (1%), and some minor additional bacterial groups. The main primary producers in the Akhtala tailing appear to be obligate autotrophic Thiobacillus and Sulfuritalea species. Representatives of Lutibacter and Lysobacter genera are the most abundant acid-tolerant heterotrophs in the studied tailing. The presence of a large number of yet-uncultivated species emphasizes the importance of the future exploration of the tailing as an important source of novel bacteria.
Optimal Planning and Operation of Distribution Systems Considering Distributed Energy Resources and Automatic Reclosers. This paper presents an integrated methodology for planning and operation of distribution systems in an environment of smart grids. The decision variables considered are location and sizing of technologies such as: distributed generation (wind, solar and small scale hydroelectric), energy storage, protection elements for fault isolation and automatic reclosers for load transfer. The integration of these technologies enable a higher automation of the distribution system the which in turn brings advantages such as reduction in the energy and active power losses and improvement in the voltage profile and service quality. The methodology consists of three stages: i) a specialized genetic algorithm for location of devices, ii) a particles swarm optimization algorithm for dimensioning of elements and iii) a non-dominated sorting genetic algorithm to solve the multi-objective problem associated with the location of reclosers. The tests were performed on a system of 102 nodes to verify the performance of the proposed methodology.
Hepatic proteome sensitivity in rainbow trout after chronically exposed to a human pharmaceutical verapamil. Verapamil (VRP), a cardiovascular pharmaceutical widely distributed and persistent in the aquatic environment, has potential toxicity to fish and other aquatic organisms. However, the molecular mechanisms that lead to these toxic effects are not well known. In the present study, proteomic analysis has been performed to investigate the protein patterns that are differentially expressed in liver of rainbow trout exposed to sublethal concentrations of VRP (0.5, 27.0, and 270 μg/liter) for 42 days. Two-dimensional electrophoresis coupled with MALDI-TOF/TOF mass spectrometry was employed to detect and identify the protein profiles. The analysis revealed that the expression of six hepatic acidic proteins were markedly altered in the treatment groups compared with the control group; three proteins especially were significantly down-regulated in fish exposed to VRP at environmental related concentration (0.5 μg/liter). These results suggested that the VRP induce mechanisms against oxidative stress (glucose-regulated protein 78 and 94 and protein disulfide-isomerase A3) and adaptive changes in ion transference regulation (calreticulin, hyperosmotic glycine-rich protein). Furthermore, for the first time, protein Canopy-1 was found to be significantly down-regulated in fish by chronic exposure to VRP at environmental related levels. Overall, our work supports that fish hepatic proteomics analysis serves as an in vivo model for monitoring the residual pharmaceuticals in aquatic environment and can provide valuable insight into the molecular events in VRP-induced toxicity in fish and other organisms.
Are interactive effects of harmful algal blooms and copper pollution a concern for water quality management?. Toxicity of mixtures of stressors is one of the major challenges in water quality management. Yet until now risk assessment focuses almost exclusively on the effect characterization of individual stressors. An important concern is the potential interactive effects of cyanobacteria, sometimes referred to as harmful algal blooms, with chemical stressors. Here, we evaluated the response of two clones of the freshwater cladoceran Daphnia magna to the combined effects of five cyanobacteria and copper. The latter remains the most commonly applied chemical algaecide and is also often detected in eutrophic run-offs that promote harmful algal blooms. Because the different cyanobacteria studied here have known modes of action that are similar, as well as dissimilar compared to the known modes of actions of copper, we based our assessment on two widely used reference models, i.e. the Concentration Addition (CA) model for similarly acting stressors and the Independent Action (IA) model for dissimilarly acting stressors. We highlight four major findings. First, the conclusions drawn on the interaction type (non-interaction vs. synergism or antagonism) between either of the five cyanobacteria species and copper were the same for both D. magna clones. Second, the interaction type differed between the Microcystis+copper mixture (non-interaction according to CA and synergism according to IA) and the four other cyanobacteria+copper mixtures (antagonism according to CA and non-interaction according to IA). Third, both reference models provided reasonable predictions for all observed mixture toxicities. Fourth, we consistently obtained different results with the IA reference model compared to the CA model. More specifically, mixtures of Cu and Microcystis were synergistic with IA whereas non-interaction was observed with CA, while the remaining four cyanobacteria+copper combinations all displayed non-interaction with IA and antagonism with CA. Despite the IA reference model providing a marginally better fit to the data in general, the CA reference model delivered more conservative predictions for mixture toxicity of cyanobacteria+copper in all cases compared to the IA reference model. Thus, the CA model could serve as a conservative model to account for mixture toxicity of cyanobacteria and copper in water quality management, as it gives rise to conservative predictions of mixed stressor toxicity at sub-lethal effect levels in D. magna. Finally, and in accordance with other studies of cyanobacteria+chemical mixtures, we did not detect any strong synergistic effects of copper and cyanobacteria mixtures on D. magna. Consequently, based on our study with the model freshwater zooplankton species Daphnia, interactive effects of harmful algal blooms and copper pollution appear to be of limited concern for water quality management.
A drainage basin perspective of mercury transport and bioaccumulation: Onondaga Lake, New York. The watershed, by way of four tributaries, provides the principal input of total Hg (Hg(T)) to Onondaga Lake, an urban hypereutrophic lake (Henry , 1995). In general, atmospheric deposition is the primary source of Hg to the watershed in the absence of point source discharges or mineral contributions. The majority of the big deposited from the atmosphere to the watershed is retained by the soils. The flux of Hg from the atmosphere to the watershed of Onondaga Lake is estimated at 20-30 μg · m-2 · yr-1, based on measurements of Hg deposition in urbanized regions of the United States and Europe. Watershed specific yield from three of the four tributaries that feed Onondaga Lake ranges from 5.3 to 7.5 μg · m-2 · yr-1. These watershed Hg export rates are higher than those observed for forested areas and represent approximately 25 percent of the estimated deposition to this urban location. The Hg(T) specific yield from the fourth tributary, Ninemile Creek, was substantially higher. This creek had the highest suspended solids loading and receives runoff from an inactive chloralkali plant site. A summertime buildup of Hg species was observed in the hypolimnion of this thermally stratified lake (Jacobs , 1995). Sediment trap collections indicated that particle settling facilitates the accumulation of Hg in the hypolimnion. The sources of CH3Hg to the hypolimnion include tributary input and in situ bacterially mediated methylation. The impact of the entrainment of Hg-rich hypolimnetic water following fall destratification on the bioaccumulation of CH3Hg was not clear, because plankton CH3Hg levels were not generally higher following fall overturn.
