No consistent evidence for association between mtDNA variants and Alzheimer disease. Objective: Although several studies have described an association between Alzheimer disease (AD) and genetic variation of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), each has implicated different mtDNA variants, so the role of mtDNA in the etiology of AD remains uncertain. Methods: We tested 138 mtDNA variants for association with AD in a powerful sample of 4,133 AD case patients and 1,602 matched controls from 3 Caucasian populations. Of the total population, 3,250 case patients and 1,221 elderly controls met the quality control criteria and were included in the analysis. Results: In the largest study to date, we failed to replicate the published findings. Meta-analysis of the available data showed no evidence of an association with AD. Conclusion: The current evidence linking common mtDNA variations with AD is not compelling.
The clinical implication of SRSF2 mutation in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome and its stability during disease evolution. Recurrent somatic mutation of SRSF2, one of the RNA splicing machinery genes, has been identified in a substantial proportion of patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). However, the clinical and biologic characteristics of MDS with this mutation remain to be addressed. In this study, 34 (14.6%) of the 233 MDS patients were found to have SRSF2 mutation. SRSF2 mutation was closely associated with male sex (P = .001) and older age (P < .001). It occurred concurrently with at least 1 additional mutation in 29 patients (85.3%) and was closely associated with RUNX1, IDH2, and ASXL1 mutations (P = .004, P < .001, and P < .001, respectively). Patients with SRSF2 mutation had an inferior overall survival (P = .010), especially in the lower risk patients. Further exploration showed that the prognostic impact of SRSF2 mutation might be attributed to its close association with old age. Sequential analyses in 173 samples from 66 patients showed that all SRSF2-mutated patients retained their original mutations, whereas none of the SRSF2-wild patients acquired a novel mutation during disease evolution. In conclusion, SRSF2 mutation is associated with distinct clinical and biologic features in MDS patients. It is stable during the clinical course and may play little role in disease progression.
Low micromolar zinc accelerates the fibrillization of human Tau via bridging of Cys-291 and Cys-322. A hallmark of a group of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer disease is the formation of neurofibrillary tangles, which are principally composed of bundles of filaments formed by microtubule-associated protein Tau. Clarifying how natively unstructured Tau protein forms abnormal aggregates is of central importance for elucidating the etiology of these diseases. There is considerable evidence showing that zinc, as an essential element that is highly concentrated in brain, is linked to the development or progression of these diseases. Herein, by using recombinant human Tau fragment Tau244-372 and its mutants, we have investigated the effect of zinc on the aggregation of Tau. Low micromolar concentrations of Zn2+ dramatically accelerate fibril formation of wild-type Tau244-372 under reducing conditions, compared with no Zn2+. Higher concentrations of Zn2+, however, induce wild-type Tau244-372 to form granular aggregates in reducing conditions. Moreover, these non-fibrillar aggregates assemble into mature Tau filaments when Zn2+ has been chelated by EDTA. Unlike wild-type Tau244-372, low micromolar concentrations of Zn2+ have no obvious effects on fibrillization kinetics of single mutants C291A and C322A and double mutant C291A/C322A under reducing conditions. The results from isothermal titration calorimetry show that one Zn2+ binds to one Tau molecule via tetrahedral coordination to Cys-291 and Cys-322 as well as two histidines, with moderate, micromolar affinity. Our data demonstrate that low micromolar zinc accelerates the fibrillization of human Tau protein via bridging Cys-291 and Cys-322 in physiological reducing conditions, providing clues to understanding the relationship between zinc dyshomeostasis and the etiology of neurodegenerative diseases.
MiR-125b regulates the proliferation of glioblastoma stem cells by targeting E2F2. microRNAs (miRNAs) play important role in regulating cancer stem cell self-renewal and differentiation, but the expression prolife of miRNAs in glioma stem cells (GSCs) has not been addressed. Here, we found that CD133 positive GSCs possess a unique miRNAs profile compared to CD133 negative glioblastoma cells. miR-125b, as one of neuronal miRNAs, is the most significantly down-regulated miRNAs and overexpression of miR-125b inhibits the proliferation of CD133 positive GSCs and reduces the expression of "stem" marker. Furthermore, two binding sites for miR-125b are identified in the 3′UTR of E2F2 and overexpression of miR-125b in CD133 positive GSCs represses the endogenous level of E2F2 protein. This study demonstrated that miR-125b plays important roles in regulating the proliferation of GSCs by directly targeting E2F2.
Transforming growth factors β1, β2, and β3 and their receptors are differentially regulated during normal and impaired wound healing. A series of studies has shown that application of transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) to a wound has a beneficial effect, especially in animals with wound healing disorders. In this study we have investigated the regulation of TGF-β1,β2, and β3 and their receptors during the repair process. We found a large induction of all three TGF-β isoforms and also of TGF-β types I and II receptors, although the time course of induction and the absolute expression levels were different for these genes. Furthermore, each TGF-β isoform had distinct sites of expression in the wound. Systemic treatment with glucocorticoids significantly altered the expression levels of TGF-βs and TGF-β receptors. Whereas expression of TGF-β1, TGF-β2, and TGF-β type II receptor was suppressed by glucocorticoids in normal and wounded skin, expression of TGF-β3 and TGF-β receptor type I mRNA was stimulated. These findings provide an explanation for the beneficial effect of exogenous TGF-β in the treatment of impaired wound healing in glucocorticoid-treated animals. Furthermore, they suggest that a disturbed balance between the levels of the three TGF-β isoforms and their receptors might underlie the wound healing defect seen in glucocorticoid-treated animals.
Cbl-b gene silencing enhances H9 T lymphocyte-mediated killing of human laryngeal squamous cancer Hep-2 cells. OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effect of sputum ubiquitin ligase (Cbl-b) gene known-down on the cytotoxicity of H9 T lymphocytes against human laryngeal squamous cancer Hep-2 cells and explore the underlying mechanism. METHODS: CD4+ T lymphocytes isolated from 12 patients with laryngeal squamous carcinoma and 12 healthy individuals were examined for Cbl-b mRNA expressions using RT-PCR. H9 T lymphocytes cultured in 96-well plates were transfected with Cbl-b siRNA via liposomes followed by treatment with an anti-IL-2 monoclonal antibody, with H9 T lymphocytes transfected with a scrambled sequence as the negative control. The expressions of Cbl-b mRNA and protein in the cells were detected using real-time fluorescent quantitative PCR and Western blotting, respectively. The killing effect of the treated T lymphocytes against Hep-2 cells was assessed using the cell counting kit (CCK-8). The positive expression rates of CD69 and CD25 on the surface of H9 T lymphocytes were determined using flow cytometry, and the levels of interleukin-2 (IL-2) and interferon-gamma (INF-γ) in the culture supernatants of H9 T lymphocytes were detected with ELISA. RESULTS: The CD4+ T lymphocytes from patients with laryngeal squamous carcinoma showed significantly increased Cbl-b mRNA level compared with those from healthy individuals (P &lt; 0.05). Transfection of H9 T lymphocytes with Cbl-b siRNA significantly reduced the expression levels of Cbl-b mRNA and protein (P &lt; 0.05), which were not significantly affected by subsequent treatment of the cells with the anti-IL-2 antibody (P&gt;0.05). At different target-effector ratios, the Cbl-b siRNA-transfected cells showed significantly higher Hep-2 cell killing rates and higher positivity rates of CD69 and CD25 expressions than the blank and negative control cells and the cells with both Cbl-b siRNA transfection and anti-IL-2 treatment (P &lt; 0.05). Cbl-b silencing in H9 T lymphocytes resulted in significantly increased levels of IL-2 and INF-γ in the supernatant as compared with those in the blank and negative control groups (P &lt; 0.05). CONCLUSIONS: Cbl-b gene silencing effectively enhances the killing effect of H9 T lymphocytes against Hep-2 cells in vitro probably as the result of enhanced IL-2 secretion and T lymphocyte activation.
Rab44, a novel large Rab GTPase, negatively regulates osteoclast differentiation by modulating intracellular calcium levels followed by NFATc1 activation. Rab44 is an atypical Rab GTPase that contains some additional domains such as the EF-hand and coiled-coil domains as well as Rab-GTPase domain. Although Rab44 genes have been found in mammalian genomes, no studies concerning Rab44 have been reported yet. Here, we identified Rab44 as an upregulated protein during osteoclast differentiation. Knockdown of Rab44 by small interfering RNA promotes RANKL-induced osteoclast differentiation of the murine monocytic cell line, RAW-D or of bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMMs). In contrast, overexpression of Rab44 prevents osteoclast differentiation. Rab44 was localized in the Golgi complex and lysosomes, and Rab44 overexpression caused an enlargement of early endosomes. A series of deletion mutant studies of Rab44 showed that the coiled-coil domain and lipidation sites of Rab44 is important for regulation of osteoclast differentiation. Mechanistically, Rab44 affects nuclear factor of activated T-cells c1 (NFATc1) signaling in RANKL-stimulated macrophages. Moreover, Rab44 depletion caused an elevation in intracellular Ca2+ transients upon RANKL stimulation, and particularly regulated lysosomal Ca2+ influx. Taken together, these results suggest that Rab44 negatively regulates osteoclast differentiation by modulating intracellular Ca2+ levels followed by NFATc1 activation.
Histamine augments interleukin-2 production and the activation of cytotoxic T lymphocytes. Histamine (0.5 g/kg) was found to augment the activation of cytotoxic T lymphocytes in vivo, if injected in the late phase (day 4) of the response. The production of interleukin-2 in concanavalin A-activated spleen cell cultures was also strongly augmented by 1 × 10-2 M histamine or by a combination of 2 × 10-3 M histamine and histamine (diamine oxidase). This suggests the possibility that the augmentation in vivo is mediated by the oxidized histamine derivative imidazolylacetaldehyde, since diamine oxidase occurs in many tissues. The interleukin-2-dependent proliferation of a T cell clone, on the other hand, was not affected by histamine with or without diamine oxidase. The experiments suggest that histamine supports the late phase of the cytotoxic T lymphocyte response by augmenting the interleukin-2 production.
Predictive value of long non-coding RNA intersectin 1-2 for occurrence and in-hospital mortality of severe acute pancreatitis. Background: This study aimed to investigate the predictive value of long non-coding RNA intersectin 1-2 (lnc-ITSN1-2) for severe acute pancreatitis (SAP) risk, and its correlation with disease severity and in-hospital mortality in SAP patients. Methods: Plasma samples from 60 SAP, 60 moderate-severe acute pancreatitis (MSAP) and 60 mild acute pancreatitis (MAP) patients were collected within 24\xa0hours, and plasma samples from 60 age and gender-matched healthy controls (HCs) were collected when enrollment. Lnc-ITSN1-2 was detected by reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction. In AP patients, disease severity was evaluated and in-hospital deaths were recorded. Results: Lnc-ITSN1-2 was increased in SAP patients compared with MSAP, MAP patients, and HCs, and it is well-discriminated SAP patients from MSAP patients (area under curve (AUC): 0.699, 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.605-0.792), MAP patients (AUC: 0.862, 95% CI: 0.798-0.926), and HCs (AUC: 0.958, 95% CI: 0.925-0.990). For disease severity, lnc-ITSN1-2 was positively correlated with Ranson's score, acute pathologic and chronic health evaluation (APACHE) II score, sequential organ failure assessment (SOFA) score, and C-reactive protein (CRP) in SAP patients, MSAP patients, and MAP patients; meanwhile, the correlation coefficients were highest in SAP patients. Furthermore, lnc-ITSN1-2 displayed a good predictive value for increased in-hospital mortality in SAP (AUC: 0.803, 95% CI: 0.673-0.933) and MSAP (AUC: 0.854, 95% CI: 0.752-0.956) patients, which was similar with several common prognostic factors (including Ranson's score, APACHE II score, SOFA score, and CRP). Conclusion: Lnc-ITSN1-2 might be a potential biomarker for discrimination of SAP to improve the prognosis of SAP patients.
Structural characterization of the extracellular domain of caSPR2 and insights into its association with the novel ligand contactin1. Contactin-associated protein-like 2 (CNTNAP2) encodes for CASPR2, a multidomain single transmembrane protein belonging to the neurexin superfamily that has been implicated in a broad range of human phenotypes including autism and language impairment. Using a combination of biophysical techniques, including small angle x-ray scattering, single particle electron microscopy, analytical ultracentrifugation, and biolayer interferometry, we present novel structural and functional data that relate the architecture of the extracellular domain of CASPR2 to a previously unknown ligand, Contactin1 (CNTN1). Structurally, CASPR2 is highly glycosylated and has an overall compact architecture. Functionally, we show that CASPR2 associates with micromolar affinity with CNTN1 but, under the same conditions, it does not interact with any of the other members of the contactin family. Moreover, by using dissociated hippocampal neurons we show that microbeads loaded with CASPR2, but not with a deletion mutant, co-localize with transfected CNTN1, suggesting that CNTN1 is an endogenous ligand for CASPR2. These data provide novel insights into the structure and function of CASPR2, suggesting a complex role of CASPR2 in the nervous system.
Telomere dysfunction and tumour suppression: The senescence connection. Long-lived organisms such as humans have evolved several intrinsic tumour suppressor mechanisms to combat the slew of oncogenic somatic mutations that constantly arise in proliferating stem-cell compartments. One of these anticancer barriers is the telomere, a specialized nucleoprotein complex that caps the ends of eukaryotic chromosome. Impaired telomere function activates the canonical DNA damage response pathway that engages p53 to initiate apoptosis or replicative senescence. Here, we discuss how p53-dependent senescence induced by dysfunctional telomeres may be as potent as apoptosis in suppressing tumorigenesis in vivo.
Connection lost, mam: Errors in er–mitochondria connections in neurodegenerative diseases. Mitochondria associated membranes (MAMs), as the name suggests, are the membranes that physically and biochemically connect mitochondria with endoplasmic reticulum. MAMs not only structurally but also functionally connect these two important organelles within the cell which were previously thought to exist independently. There are multiple points of communication between ER–mitochondria and MAMs play an important role in both ER and mitochondria functions such as Ca2+ homeostasis, proteostasis, mitochondrial bioenergetics, movement, and mitophagy. The number of disease-related proteins and genes being associated with MAMs has been continually on the rise since its discovery. There is an overwhelming overlap between the biochemical functions of MAMs and processes affected in neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer’s disease (AD), Parkinson’s disease (PD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), and Huntington’s disease (HD). Thus, MAMs have received well-deserving and much delayed attention as modulators for ER–mitochondria communication and function. This review briefly discusses the recent progress made in this now fast developing field full of promise for very exciting future therapeutic discoveries.
Long noncoding ribonucleic acids maternally expressed gene 3 inhibits lung cancer tumor progression through downregulation of MYC. OBJECTIVE: Long noncoding ribonucleic acids (RNAs) nowadays emerge as important biomarkers or potential therapeutic targets discussed in human cancers. Among them, maternally expressed gene 3 (MEG3) is known to be decreased in a variety of malignancies. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) was performed to detect the expression of MEG3 in forty pairs of lung cancer (LC) tissues. Overexpression of MEG3 was carried out, and we determined its effect on cell proliferation, apoptosis, and migration evaluated by cell counting kit-8, flow cytometric, and transwell analysis. Messenger RNA and protein expression of MYC were determined by qRT-PCR and western blot, respectively. RESULTS: The expression of MEG3 was downregulated in LC tissues. Forced expression of MEG3 led to reduced abilities of cell proliferation and elevated apoptosis rate. It also slightly inhibited cell migration capacity in vitro. In addition, MYC was inhibited by MEG3 overexpression at both transcriptional and translational levels. CONCLUSION: Our findings revealed MEG3 could regulate LC progression and serve as an important target for LC treatment.
Levels of S100B protein drive the reparative process in acute muscle injury and muscular dystrophy. Regeneration of injured skeletal muscles relies on a tightly controlled chain of cellular and molecular events. We show that appropriate levels of S100B protein are required for timely muscle regeneration after acute injury. S100B released from damaged myofibers and infiltrating macrophages expands the myoblast population, attracts macrophages and promotes their polarization into M2 (pro-regenerative) phenotype, and modulates collagen deposition, by interacting with RAGE (receptor for advanced glycation end-products) or FGFR1 (fibroblast growth factor receptor 1) depending on the muscle repair phase and local conditions. However, persistence of high S100B levels compromises the regeneration process prolonging myoblast proliferation and macrophage infiltration, delaying M1/M2 macrophage transition, and promoting deposition of fibrotic tissue via RAGE engagement. Interestingly, S100B is released in high abundance from degenerating muscles of mdx mice, an animal model of Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD), and blocking S100B ameliorates histopathology. Thus, levels of S100B differentially affect skeletal muscle repair upon acute injury and in the context of muscular dystrophy, and S100B might be regarded as a potential molecular target in DMD.
The STATus of PD-L1 (B7-H1) on tolerogenic APCs. Expression by DCs of co-inhibitory molecules such as programmed death ligand-1 (PD-L1/B7-H1/CD274), a member of the B7 superfamily, is crucial for the downregulation of T-cell responses and the maintenance of immune homeostasis. Exposure of immature DCs to danger-associated molecular patterns (DAMPS) or pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) generally results in their maturation and acquisition of immunostimulatory function. However, exposure of DCs to TLR ligands early during their differentiation can inhibit further differentiation and confer tolerogenic properties on these APCs. A report in this issue of The European Journal of Immunology reveals that early inhibition of human DC differentiation from blood monocytes by TLR agonists is associated with a tolerogenic phenotype and Treg generation. The tolerogenic function of these APCs is dependent on MAPK-induced IL-6 and IL-10 production, which drives STAT-3-mediated PD-L1 expression. These observations link IL-10 and IL-6 to PD-L1 expression, providing a new dimension to the anti-inflammatory properties of these cytokines. These findings also have implications for understanding the inherent function of DCs in non-lymphoid tissues such as the liver and lung, where they are exposed to PAMPs that are found constitutively in the local microenvironment.
Cloning and characterization of AOEB166, a novel mammalian antioxidant enzyme of the peroxiredoxin family. Using two-dimensional electrophoresis, we have recently identified in human bronchoalveolar lavage fluid a novel protein, termed B166, with a molecular mass of 17 kDa. Here, we report the cloning of human and rat cDNAs encoding B166, which has been renamed AOEB166 for antioxidant enzyme B166. Indeed, the deduced amino acid sequence reveals that AOEB166 represents a new mammalian subfamily of AhpC/TSA peroxiredoxin antioxidant enzymes. Human AOEB166 shares 63% similarity with Escherichia coli AhpC22 alkyl hydroperoxide reductase and 66% similarity with a recently identified Saccharomyces cerevisiae alkyl hydroperoxide reductase/thioredoxin peroxidase. Moreover, recombinant AOEB166 expressed in E. coli exhibits a peroxidase activity, and an antioxidant activity comparable with that of catalase was demonstrated with the glutamine synthetase protection assay against dithiothreitol/Fe3+/O2 oxidation. The analysis of AOEB166 mRNA distribution in 30 different human tissues and in 10 cell lines shows that the gene is widely expressed in the body. Of interest, the analysis of N- and C-terminal domains of both human and rat AOEB166 reveals amino acid sequences presenting features of mitochondrial and peroxisomal targeting sequences. Furthermore, human AOEB166 expressed as a fusion protein with GFP in HepG2 cell line is sorted to these organelles. Finally, acute inflammation induced in rat lung by lipopolysaccharide is associated with an increase of AOEB166 mRNA levels in lung, suggesting a protective role for AOEB166 in oxidative and inflammatory processes.
The opposing and complimentary roles of IL-4 and TGF-β in directing programs of T cell differentiation. T cells are well adapted to sense and respond to cues from their environment. Cytokine cues are particularly important when T cells are first activated. During their initial activation, the cytokine milieu directs the differentiation of T cells towards a particular T helper program while suppressing other fates. Production of T helper-specific cytokines by naive T cell must be prevented to force their dependence on outside cues. If these cues are not provided, or are inappropriately interpreted, the immune response will fail to develop appropriately. This could result in excessive stimulation, and lead to allergy or autoimmunity. In contrast, inadequate responses could lead to immunodeficiency. In this review, we illustrate this dichotomy using TGF-β and IL-4, two cytokines that, when delivered in the presence of IL-2, can drive cells towards the inducible regulatory T (iTreg) cell or the T H2 cell program. Interestingly, TGF-β and IL-4 antagonize one another and actively suppress the differentiation program induced by the other. Furthermore, the combination of the two signals drives T cells to adopt a different helper program that is characterized by production of the cytokine IL-9, thus defining them as TH9 cells. Recent data has revealed key mechanisms by which IL-4 and TGF- β promote and/or suppress TH2 and iTreg cell differentiation programs. Additionally, the molecular pathways that result from the cooperation of TGF-β and IL-4, resulting in TH9 generation, have been recently defined. We will integrate these new findings and discuss how defects in pathways that help T cells interpret these external cues lead to inappropriate immune responses and can have deleterious consequences.
Heat Stress-induced Protein Glycosylation in Mammalian Cells. The cellular stress response is a model for the regulation of gene expression and represents a highly conserved mechanism for cells that respond to a changing environment. The cellular stress response includes a significant glycobiological component, which although not well characterized, appears essential and complementary to the role of “classical” heat shock proteins (HSPs). This review concentrates on the glycobiological component of the mammalian stress response, where several major heat stress-induced glycoproteins have been identified to date. For example, the expression and glycosyl-ation of GP50 and GP62 is associated with the development of thermotolerance, while P-SG67 and P-SG64 are glycosylated “promptly”, i.e., within minutes after the initiation of heat stress. GP50 in CHO cells is homologous to the serpin family-related retinoic acid-inducible mouse J6 gene product, whereas P-SG67 and P-SG64 are glycosylated variants of the multifunctional ER protein, calreticulin. Potential functions for stress glycoproteins and their possible interaction with HSPs are discussed. The availability of molecular probes for stress glycoproteins should facilitate studies to understand their functions and to utilize them in biotechnological applications.
LINCing Defective Nuclear-Cytoskeletal Coupling and DYT1 Dystonia. Mechanical forces generated by nuclear-cytoskeletal coupling through the linker of nucleoskeleton and cytoskeleton (LINC) complex, an evolutionarily conserved molecular bridge in the nuclear envelope (NE), are critical for the execution of wholesale nuclear positioning events in migrating and dividing cells, chromosome dynamics during meiosis, and mechanotransduction. LINC complexes consist of outer Klarsicht, ANC-1, and Syne homology (KASH) and inner Sad1, UNC-84 (SUN) nuclear membrane proteins. KASH proteins interact with the cytoskeleton in the cytoplasm and SUN proteins in the perinuclear space of the NE. In the nucleoplasm, SUN proteins interact with A-type nuclear lamins and chromatin-binding proteins. Recent structural insights into the KASH-SUN interaction have generated several questions regarding how LINC complex assembly and function might be regulated within the perinuclear space. Here we discuss potential LINC regulatory mechanisms and focus on the potential role of the ATPases associated with various cellular activities (AAA+) protein, torsinA, as a LINC complex regulator within the NE. We also examine how defects in LINC complex regulation by torsinA may contribute to the pathogenesis of the human neurological movement disorder, DYT1 dystonia.
Recurrent intragenic rearrangements of EGFR and BRAF in soft tissue tumors of infants. Soft tissue tumors of infancy encompass an overlapping spectrum of diseases that pose unique diagnostic and clinical challenges. We studied genomes and transcriptomes of cryptogenic congenital mesoblastic nephroma (CMN), and extended our findings to five anatomically or histologically related soft tissue tumors: infantile fibrosarcoma (IFS), nephroblastomatosis, Wilms tumor, malignant rhabdoid tumor, and clear cell sarcoma of the kidney. A key finding is recurrent mutation of EGFR in CMN by internal tandem duplication of the kinase domain, thus delineating CMN from other childhood renal tumors. Furthermore, we identify BRAF intragenic rearrangements in CMN and IFS. Collectively these findings reveal novel diagnostic markers and therapeutic strategies and highlight a prominent role of isolated intragenic rearrangements as drivers of infant tumors.
Genetic predisposition to neuroblastoma mediated by a LMO1 super-enhancer polymorphism. Neuroblastoma is a paediatric malignancy that typically arises in early childhood, and is derived from the developing sympathetic nervous system. Clinical phenotypes range from localized tumours with excellent outcomes to widely metastatic disease in which long-term survival is approximately 40% despite intensive therapy. A previous genome-wide association study identified common polymorphisms at the LMO1 gene locus that are highly associated with neuroblastoma susceptibility and oncogenic addiction to LMO1 in the tumour cells. Here we investigate the causal DNA variant at this locus and the mechanism by which it leads to neuroblastoma tumorigenesis. We first imputed all possible genotypes across the LMO1 locus and then mapped highly associated single nucleotide polymorphism (SNPs) to areas of chromatin accessibility, evolutionary conservation and transcription factor binding sites. We show that SNP rs2168101 G>T is the most highly associated variant (combined P = 7.47 × 10-29, odds ratio 0.65, 95% confidence interval 0.60-0.70), and resides in a super-enhancer defined by extensive acetylation of histone H3 lysine 27 within the first intron of LMO1. The ancestral G allele that is associated with tumour formation resides in a conserved GATA transcription factor binding motif. We show that the newly evolved protective TATA allele is associated with decreased total LMO1 expression (P = 0.028) in neuroblastoma primary tumours, and ablates GATA3 binding (P < 0.0001). We demonstrate allelic imbalance favouring the G-containing strand in tumours heterozygous for this SNP, as demonstrated both by RNA sequencing (P < 0.0001) and reporter assays (P = 0.002). These findings indicate that a recently evolved polymorphism within a super-enhancer element in the first intron of LMO1 influences neuroblastoma susceptibility through differential GATA transcription factor binding and direct modulation of LMO1 expression in cis, and this leads to an oncogenic dependency in tumour cells.
Deletions of 12p in hematological malignancies. Deletions and rearrangements of the short arms of chromosome 12 are frequent chromosomal changes in patients with haematological malignancies. The loss of genetic material in tumour cells is usually indicative of the inactivation of genes with tumour suppressor function. The region of 12p has been largely studied by molecular genetic and molecular cytogenetic methods to identify the tumour suppressor genes included in leukemogenesis. The gene TEL/ETV6 is not classical tumour suppressor gene but it is often deleted or rearranged in variety of hematological malignancies. In this study we present a group of 10 patients with deletion del(12)(p) found by conventional cytogenetic analyses. Patient's diagnoses were either lymphoid or myeloid leukaemias. We applied molecular-cytogenetic methods (fluorescence in situ hybridization- FISH) with locus-specific probe LSI TEL/AML1 to assess deletion of TEL/ETV6 gene on 12p. To exclude translocations of 12p we use FISH with whole chromosome painting probe for chromosome 12 and mFISH in patients with complex karyotype. Deletion of TEL/ETV6 was found in five of eight examined patients. No translocations of 12p were confirmed. The region closely linked to this gene probably contains one or more genes (tumour suppressors) which play the role in progression of oncogenesis. We suppose that in patients with unconfirmed deletion of TEL/ETV6 other genes with tumour suppressor function were inactivated.
Regulation of Mcl-1 Expression in Context to Bone Marrow Stromal Microenvironment in Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia. A growing body of evidence suggests that the resistance of CLL cells to apoptosis is partly mediated through the interactions between leukemia cells and adjacent stromal cells residing in the lymphatic tissue or bone marrow microenvironment. Mcl-1, an anti-apoptotic protein that is associated with failure to treatment is up-regulated in CLL lymphocytes after interaction with microenvironment. However, the regulation of its expression in context to microenvironment is unclear. We evaluated and compared changes in Mcl-1 in CLL B-cells in suspension culture and when co-cultured on stromal cells. The blockade of apoptosis in co-cultured CLL cells is associated with diminution in caspase-3 and PARP cleavage and is not dependent on cytogenetic profile or prognostic factors of the disease. Stroma-derived resistance to apoptosis is associated with a cascade of transcriptional events such as increase in levels of total RNA Pol II and its phosphorylation at Ser2 and Ser5, increase in the rate of global RNA synthesis, and amplification of Mcl-1 transcript levels. The latter is associated with increase in Mcl-1 protein level without an impact on the levels of Bcl-2 and Bcl-xL. Post-translational modifications of protein kinases show increased phosphorylation of Akt at Ser473, Erk at Thr202/Tyr204 and Gsk-3β at Ser9 and augmentation of total Mcl-1 accumulation along with phosphorylation at Ser159/Thr163 sites. Collectively, stroma-induced apoptosis resistance is mediated through signaling proteins that regulate transcriptional and translational expression and post-translational modification of Mcl-1 in CLL cells in context to bone marrow stromal microenvironment.
Establishment of In Vitro Models by Stress-Induced Premature Senescence for Characterizing the Stromal Vascular Niche in Human Adipose Tissue. Acting as the largest energy reservoir in the body, adipose tissue is involved in longevity and progression of age-related metabolic dysfunction. Here, cellular senescence plays a central role in the generation of a pro-inflammatory environment and in the evolution of chronic diseases. Within the complexity of a tissue, identification and targeting of senescent cells is hampered by their heterogeneity. In this study, we generated stress-induced premature senescence 2D and 3D in vitro models for the stromal vascular niche of human adipose tissue. We established treatment conditions for senescence induction using Doxorubicin (Dox), starting from adipose-derived stromal/stem cells (ASCs), which we adapted to freshly isolated microtissue-stromal vascular fraction (MT-SVF), where cells are embedded within their native extracellular matrix. Senescence hallmarks for the established in vitro models were verified on different cellular levels, including morphology, cell cycle arrest, senescence-associated β-galactosidase activity (SA-βgal) and gene expression. Two subsequent exposures with 200 nM Dox for six days were suitable to induce senescence in our in vitro models. We demonstrated induction of senescence in the 2D in vitro models through SA-βgal activity, at the mRNA level (LMNB1, CDK1, p21) and additionally by G2/M phase cell cycle arrest in ASCs. Significant differences in Lamin B1 and p21 protein expression confirmed senescence in our MT-SVF 3D model. MT-SVF 3D cultures were composed of multiple cell types, including CD31, CD34 and CD68 positive cells, while cell death remained unaltered upon senescence induction. As heterogeneity and complexity of adipose tissue senescence is given by multiple cell types, our established senescence models that represent the perivascular niche embedded within its native extracellular matrix are highly relevant for future clinical studies.
Oxidation of low density lipoprotein by mesangial cells may promote glomerular injury. Low density lipoprotein (LDL) deposition and local oxidation play a key role in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis and may likewise contribute to glomerular injury. These studies were designed to determine whether cultured human mesangial cells oxidize homologous LDL and to compare the effects of unmodified and oxidized lipoprotein on cell proliferation, viability and eicosanoid production. Cell-mediated lipoprotein oxidation was demonstrated and could be suppressed by oxygen free radical scavengers and inhibitors of arachidonic acid metabolism. When incubated with cells, oxidized LDL (Ox- LDL) at concentrations up to and including 100 μg/ml reduced 3H-thymidine incorporation without causing cytotoxicity as assessed by lactate dehydrogenase release. Under the same conditions there was a concentration- dependent increase in the synthesis of prostaglandins E2, 6-keto-PGF(1α) and thromboxane B2. In contrast, unmodified LDL enhanced DNA synthesis at concentrations less than 40 μg/ml and had little effect on eicosanoid production. These results demonstrate that exogenous oxidized LDL inhibits mesangial cell proliferation and increases eicosanoid synthesis. Unmodified lipoprotein can be directly oxidized by these cells through mechanisms that involve generation of oxygen free radicals.
Natural Small Molecules Targeting NF-κB Signaling in Glioblastoma. Nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) is a transcription factor that regulates various genes that mediate various cellular activities, including propagation, differentiation, motility, and survival. Abnormal activation of NF-κB is a common incidence in several cancers. Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is the most aggressive brain cancer described by high cellular heterogeneity and almost unavoidable relapse following surgery and resistance to traditional therapy. In GBM, NF-κB is abnormally activated by various stimuli. Its function has been associated with different processes, including regulation of cancer cells with stem-like phenotypes, invasion of cancer cells, and radiotherapy resistance identification of mesenchymal cells. Even though multimodal therapeutic approaches such as surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapeutic drugs are used for treating GBM, however; the estimated mortality rate for GBM patients is around 1\xa0year. Therefore, it is necessary to find out new therapeutic approaches for treating GBM. Many studies are focusing on therapeutics having less adverse effects owing to the failure of conventional chemotherapy and targeted agents. Several studies of compounds suggested the involvement of NF-κB signaling pathways in the growth and development of a tumor and GBM cell apoptosis. In this review, we highlight the involvement of NF-κB signaling in the molecular understanding of GBM and natural compounds targeting NF-κB signaling.
Identification of the human klotho gene and its two transcripts encoding membrane and secreted klotho protein. Inactivation of the klotho (kl) gene in mice results in multiple disorders that resemble human aging. The mouse kl gene encodes a novel single-pass membrane protein with homology to β-glucosidases. In this study, we have isolated a human homologue of the kl gene and determined its gene structure. The human kl gene is composed of 5 exons and ranges over 50 kb on chromosome 13q12. We have further identified two transcripts that encode a membrane or secreted protein. These transcripts arise from a single kl gene through alternative RNA splicing. Expression of the putative secreted form predominates over that of the membrane form. The present study provides fundamental information necessary for further analyses of the human kl gene and its functions.
Regulation of retinoblastoma protein activity by the c terminal domain. Purpose. The retinoblastoma protein (Rb) is a iumor suppressor that regulates cell proliferation by controlling cellular transition from Gl to S phase of the cell cycle. The A-B pocket of Rb forms a transcriptional represser motif which is regulated through phosphorylation of the C-terminal of Rb. We examined the mechanism of C-terminal regulation of the A-B pocket. Methods. Transient iransfections of plasmids expressing GAL4-R5 or LexA-Rb fusion proteins in C33A (Rb-t cells, and detection of transcriptional activity using a reporter plasmid containing the chloramphenico! acetyttransferase (CAT) gene, SV40 promoter, and GAL4 or LexA binding sites. Results. Overexpression of the A-B pocket as a GAL4 or LexA fusion protein resulted in repression of CAT activity. Coexpression of the C-terminal domain on a separate protein blocked this transcriptional repression. Conclusions. Since the C-terminal can block transcriptional repression by the A-B pocket when expressed on a separate protein, the mechanism of C-terminal regulation may depend on interdomain interactions, rather than intramolecular conformational changes.
Altered sirtuin expression is associated with node-positive breast cancer. Sirtuins are genes implicated in cellular and organismal ageing. Consequently, they are speculated to be involved in diseases of ageing including cancer. Various cancers with widely differing prognosis have been shown to have differing and characteristic expression of these genes; however, the relationship between sirtuin expression and cancer progression is unclear. In order to correlate cancer progression and sirtuin expression, we have assessed sirtuin expression as a function of primary cell ageing and compared sirtuin expression in normal, 'nonmalignant' breast biopsies to breast cancer biopsies using real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Levels of SIRT7 expression were significantly increased in breast cancer (P<0.0001). Increased levels of SIRT3 and SIRT7 transcription were also associated with node-positive breast cancer (P<0.05 and P<0.0001, respectively). This study has demonstrated differential sirtuin expression between nonmalignant and malignant breast tissue, with consequent diagnostic and therapeutic implications.
CD14+ monocytes repress gamma globin expression at early stages of erythropoiesis. In β-hemoglobinopathies, reactivation of gamma- at the expense of beta-globin is a prominent therapeutic option. Expression of the globin genes is not strictly intrinsically regulated during erythropoiesis, supported by the observation that fetal erythroid cells switch to adult hemoglobin expression when injected in mice. We show cultured erythroblasts are a mix of HbA restrictive and HbA/HbF expressing cells and that the proportion of cells in the latter population depends on the starting material. Cultures started from CD34+ cells contain more HbA/HbF expressing cells compared to erythroblasts cultured from total peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC). Depletion of CD14+ cells from PBMC resulted in higher HbF/HbA percentages. Conversely, CD34+ co-culture with CD14+ cells reduced the HbF/HbA population through cell–cell proximity, indicating that CD14+ actively repressed HbF expression in adult erythroid cultures. RNA-sequencing showed that HbA and HbA/HbF populations contain a limited number of differentially expressed genes, aside from HBG1/2. Co-culture of CD14+ cells with sorted uncommitted hematopoietic progenitors and CD34-CD36+ erythroblasts showed that hematopoietic progenitors prior to the hemoglobinized erythroid stages are more readily influenced by CD14+ cells to downregulate expression of HBG1/2, suggesting temporal regulation of these genes. This possibly provides a novel therapeutic avenue to develop β-hemoglobinopathies treatments.
Immune Cluster and PPI Network Analyses Identified CXCR3 as a Key Node of Immunoregulation in Head and Neck Cancer. The tumor microenvironment (TME) is significantly associated with clinical outcomes and therapeutic efficacy. However, the landscape of the head and neck cancer (HNC) microenvironment is not fully understood. Therefore, we divided HNCs into three classes according to differences in the TME to determine effective personalized treatments. We explored the immune landscape of head and neck cancer by analysing the gene expression profile of 501 cases from the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) data portal and validated our findings in 270 cases from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. The levels of immune components in the tumor microenvironment were evaluated via single-sample gene set enrichment (ssGSEA) analysis. The HNCs were clustered into an Immunity-H group, Immunity-M group and Immunity-L group according to 40 immune components in the tumor microenvironment. DNA damage and HLA genes play an important role in immune regulation. The patients in the Immunity-H group had a favourable survival compared with patients in the Immunity-M group and the Immunity-L group. The patients in the Immunity-H group and Immunity-M group could benefit from radiotherapy. In addition, the Immunity-L group showed the lowest immunophenoscore and had poor response to anti-PD-1 treatment. CXCR3 was demonstrated to be downregulated in the Immunity-L group, which was related to shorter OS in the TCGA and GEO databases, suggesting CXCR3 as a potential therapeutic target. Taken together, our findings proposed three new microenvironment-related phenotypes of HNCs and suggested that CXCR3 played a major role in immune regulation and could be a novel therapeutic target, providing a reference for clinical decisions and research directions in the future.
Multimodal use of calcitonin gene-related peptide and substance P in itch and acute pain uncovered by the elimination of vesicular glutamate transporter 2 from transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily v member 1 neurons. Primary afferents are known to use glutamate as their principal fast neurotransmitter. However, it has become increasingly clear that peptides have an influential role in both mediating and modulating sensory transmission. Herewedescribe the transmission accounting for different acute pain states and itch transmitted via the transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily V member 1 (TRPV1) population by either ablating Trpv1–Cre-expressing neurons or inducing vesicular glutamate transporter 2 (VGLUT2) deficiency in Trpv1–Cre-expressing neurons. Furthermore, by pharmacological inhibition of substance P or calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) signaling in Vglut2-deficient mice, we evaluated the contribution of substance P or CGRP to these sensory modulations, with or without the presence of VGLUT2-mediated glutamatergic transmission in Trpv1–Cre neurons. This examination, together with c-Fos analyses, showed that glutamate via VGLUT2 in the Trpv1–Cre population together with substance P mediate acute cold pain, whereas glutamate together with CGRP mediate noxious heat. Moreover, we demonstrate that glutamate together with both substance P and CGRP mediate tissue-injuryassociated pain.Wefurther show that itch, regulatedbythe VGLUT2-mediated transmission via the Trpv1–Cre population, depends on CGRP and gastrin-releasing peptide receptor (GRPR) transmission because pharmacological blockade ofthe CGRPorGRPR pathway,orgenetic ablationofGrpr, ledtoadrastically attenuateditch. Our study reveals how different neurotransmitterscombinedcan cooperate with each other to transmit or regulate various acute sensations, including itch.
Extracellular vesicle-mediated endothelial apoptosis and EV-associated proteins correlate with COVID-19 disease severity. Coronavirus disease-2019 (COVID-19), caused by the novel severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2), has lead to a global pandemic with a rising toll in infections and deaths. Better understanding of its pathogenesis will greatly improve the outcomes and treatment of affected patients. Here we compared the inflammatory and cardiovascular disease-related protein cargo of circulating large and small extracellular vesicles (EVs) from 84 hospitalized patients infected with SARS-CoV-2 with different stages of disease severity. Our findings reveal significant enrichment of proinflammatory, procoagulation, immunoregulatory and tissue-remodelling protein signatures in EVs, which remarkably distinguished symptomatic COVID-19 patients from uninfected controls with matched comorbidities and delineated those with moderate disease from those who were critically ill. Specifically, EN-RAGE, followed by TF and IL-18R1, showed the strongest correlation with disease severity and length of hospitalization. Importantly, EVs from COVID-19 patients induced apoptosis of pulmonary microvascular endothelial cells in the order of disease severity. In conclusion, our findings support a role for EVs in the pathogenesis of COVID-19 disease and underpin the development of EV-based approaches to predicting disease severity, determining need for patient hospitalization and identifying new therapeutic targets.
Haplotypes of P2RX7 gene polymorphisms are associated with both cold pain sensitivity and analgesic effect of fentanyl. The P2X7 receptor is a member of the P2X family of adenosine 5'-triphosphate-gated cation channels. Several recent studies have demonstrated that this receptor is involved in mechanisms related to pain and inflammation. However, unknown is whether polymorphisms of the P2RX7 gene that encodes the human P2X7 receptor influence pain sensitivity and analgesic effects of opioids. The P2RX7 gene is known to be highly polymorphic. Thus, the present study examined associations between fentanyl sensitivity and polymorphisms in the P2RX7 gene in 355 Japanese patients who underwent painful orofacial cosmetic surgery. Results: We first conducted linkage disequilibrium (LD) analyses for 55 reported single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the region within and around the P2RX7 gene using genomic samples from 100 patients. In our samples, 42 SNPs were polymorphic, and a total of five LD blocks with six Tag SNPs (rs2708092, rs1180012, rs1718125, rs208293, rs1718136, and rs7132846) were observed. Thus, we further analyzed associations between genotypes/haplotypes of these Tag SNPs and clinical data using a total of 355 samples. In the genotype-based association study, only the rs1718125 G > A SNP tended to be associated with higher pain scores on a visual analog scale 24h after surgery (VAS24). The haplotype-based association study showed that subjects with homozygous haplotype No.3 (GTAAAC; estimated frequency: 15.0%) exhibited significantly higher cold pain sensitivity and lower analgesic effects of fentanyl for acute cold pain in the cold pressor test. Conversely, subjects who carried haplotype No.1 (ACGGAC; estimated frequency: 24.5%) tended to exhibit lower cold pain sensitivity and higher analgesic effects of fentanyl. Furthermore, subjects with homozygous haplotype No.2 (GCGGAC; estimated frequency: 22.9%) exhibited significantly lower VAS24 scores. Conclusions: Cold pain sensitivity and analgesic effects of fentanyl were related to the SNP and haplotypes of the P2RX7 gene. The patients with the rs1718125 G>A SNP tended to show higher VAS24 scores. Moreover, the combination of polymorphisms from the 5'-flanking region to exon 5 recessively affected cold pain sensitivity and analgesic effects of opioids for acute cold pain. The present findings shed light on the involvement of P2RX7 gene polymorphisms in naive cold pain sensitivity and analgesic effects of fentanyl.
Telomere length in human liver diseases. To determine the role of telomere-mediated gene stability in hepatocarcinogenesis, we examined the telomere length human liver without chronic liver diseases and hepatocellular carcinomas (HCC). The mean telomere restriction fragment (TRF) length of normal liver (n = 13), chronic hepatitis (n = 11), liver cirrhosis (n = 24) and HCC (n = 24) was 7.8 ± 0.2, 7.1 ± 0.3, 6.4 ± 0.2 and 5.2 ± 0.2 kb, respectively (mean ± standard error). TRF length decreased with a progression of chronic liver diseases and that in HCC was significantly shorter than that in other chronic liver diseases (p < 0.05). The ratios of TRF length of HCC to that of corresponding surrounding liver of well differentiated (n = 7), moderately differentiated (n = 10) and poorly differentiated (n = 4) HCCs were 0.83 ± 0.06, 0.75 ± 0.05 and 0.98 ± 0.09, respectively. The ratio of poorly differentiated HCC was significantly higher than that of moderately differentiated HCC (p < 0.05). A comparison between the size and telomere length ratio of moderately differentiated HCCs revealed a decrease of the ratio with size until it reached 50 mm in diameter. In contrast, the ratio increased as the size enlarged over 50 mm. These findings suggest that the gene stability of the liver cells mediated by the telomere is reduced as chronic liver disease progresses and that telomerase is activated in poorly differentiated HCC and moderately differentiated HCC over 50 mm in diameter.
Pathological and clinical correlations in primary cutaneous B-cell lymphomas: A series of 44 cases. Aims: histological and clinical relationship study of 44 cases of primary cutaneous B cell lymphoma, classified according to WHO classification. Materials and methods: histological, immunological and molecular analysis was correlated with clinical data. Results: 33 cases (75%) were marginal zone B-cell lymphomas (MZL), with head and trunk predominance (median age = 54 years). Relapses in other mucosa-related sites occurred in 3 patients. Histological transformation implied a more aggressive treatment in 3 cases. A favorable outcome was observed in most cases. 9 (20%) diffuse large B-cell lymphomas (DLBCL) appeared as a unique nodule, with female predominance (median age = 74 years) and 4 lymphoma-related deaths which seemed age-related (> 70 years) with only one lower limb localization. Histological aggressive features were present in 3 patients with a fatal outcome. 2 (5%) WHO grade 3 follicular lymphomas (FL) had an heterogeneous phenotype, with head localization, cutaneous relapses and good outcome. Conclusions: MZL, the predominant type, has a good prognosis, although transformation can occur, needing a more aggressive treatment. DLBCL, observed in older patients, has clinical and histological prognostic factors identical to extra-cutaneous lymphomas. FL appears rare and has an heterogeneous phenotype. Relationships with its nodal counterpart remains unclear.
Exosomal long non-coding RNA LIPCAR derived from oxLDL-treated THP-1 cells regulates the proliferation of human umbilical vein endothelial cells and human vascular smooth muscle cells. Background: It has been reported that long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) LIPCAR is involved in the progression of atherosclerosis. However, the mechanism underlying the effects of LIPCAR on regulating the occurrence and development of atherosclerosis remains unclear. Methods: Reverse transcription-quantitative PCR was performed to detect the levels of LIPCAR in the plasma of patients with atherosclerosis and in THP-1 macrophages. THP-1 cells were stimulated with oxidized low-density lipoprotein (ox-LDL) to induce foam cell formation. Furthermore, Transwell assay was carried out to evaluate the migration ability of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs). Results: The expression of LIPCAR in the plasma of patients with atherosclerosis was significantly higher compared with that in healthy subjects, while LIPCAR knockdown notably reversed ox-LDL-induced THP-1 cell apoptosis. In addition, LIPCAR was upregulated in exosomes derived from THP-1 cells treated with ox-LDL (THP-1/ox-LDL Exo). Furthermore, THP-1/ox-LDL Exo significantly increased the expression levels of CDK2 and proliferative cell nuclear antigen in human VSMCs, while these effects were reversed following LIPCAR silencing. Conclusion: The results of the present study suggested that exosomal lncRNA LIPCAR derived from ox-LDL modified THP-1 cells could promote the progression of atherosclerosis. Therefore, LIPCAR may be considered as a novel biomarker for the development of new strategies to treat atherosclerosis.
Expression of the promyelocytic leukemia zinc-finger in T-lymphoblastic lymphoma and leukemia has strong implications for their cellular origin and greater association with initial bone marrow involvement. The promyelocytic leukemia zinc-finger (PLZF) is essential for the development of innate T cells (as represented by natural killer T cells) for acquisition of their unique innate immune properties. We evaluated the PLZF protein expression in a variety of immature and mature lymphoid malignancies. PLZF was preferentially expressed in T-lymphoblastic lymphoma/acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-LBL/ALL) in 50% of the 54 cases. Among 51 cases of peripheral T-cell lymphoma not otherwise specified, only one (2%) expressed PLZF. One mycosis fungoides case expressed PLZF in lymph node involved by tumor. Otherwise, PLZF was not detected in any other type of lymphoma. In T-LBL/ALL, PLZF expression was more common in CD4/CD8 double-negative (67%) or CD8 single-positive subtypes (73%) than in CD4/CD8 double-positive (13%) and CD4 single-positive subtypes (0%) (P0.001). Importantly, PLZF and CD1a expression were mutually exclusive in T-LBL/ALL (P0.001). This was also the case for T-cell receptor ΒF1 expression (P0.000). Most (96%) of the PLZF-positive T-LBL/ALL cases showed initial bone marrow involvement compared with 39% of PLZF-negative cases (P0.000). Based on these findings, we suggest that T-LBL/ALLs that express PLZF arise from early immature double-negative thymocytes when the T-cell receptor Β chain has not yet expressed or innate T-cell precursors, and strongly imply bone marrow involvement.
Caspase cleavage of the MET receptor generates an HGF interfering fragment. The MET tyrosine kinase receptor activated by its ligand HGF/SF, induces several cellular responses, including survival. Nonetheless, the MET receptor is cleaved in stress conditions by caspases within its intracellular region, generating a 40 kDa fragment, p40 MET, with pro-apoptotic properties. Here, we established that this cleavage splits the receptor at the juxtamembrane ESVD site, causing the concomitant generation of p100 MET, corresponding to the entire extracellular region of the MET receptor still spanning the membrane. This fragment is able to bind HGF/SF and to prevent HGF-dependent signaling downstream of full MET, demonstrating its function as a decoy receptor.
Modulation of ARTS and XIAP by Parkin Is Associated with Carnosic Acid Protects SH-SY5Y Cells against 6-Hydroxydopamine-Induced Apoptosis. The mediation of apoptosis-related protein in the TGF-β signaling pathway (ARTS) and X-liked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP) by parkin plays a critical role in preventing Parkinson’s disease. We studied whether carnosic acid (CA) could prevent 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-induced apoptosis by modulating ARTS and XIAP through parkin in SH-SY5Y cells. In cells treated with 6-OHDA, the protein expression of ARTS is increased and XIAP is decreased. Pretreatment of cells with CA reversed these effects. Moreover, CA attenuated the activation of caspase 9 and caspase 7 by 6-OHDA. By immunoprecipitation with ARTS antibody, we found that 6-OHDA increased the protein expression of XIAP. However, pretreatment of cells with CA reduced XIAP protein and increased the ubiquitination of ARTS. Silencing of parkin attenuated the ability of CA to reverse the induction of ARTS and apoptotic-related proteins and the reduction of XIAP and parkin protein by 6-OHDA. Similarly, reversal of 6-OHDA-induced nuclear condensation and apoptotic-related proteins by CA was inhibited in cells with XIAP silencing. In conclusion, CA induces parkin by enhancing the ubiquitination of ARTS, leading to induction of XIAP. This may be a novel strategy for preventing Parkinson’s disease.
Serum proteomics links suppression of tumor immunity to ancestry and lethal prostate cancer. There is evidence that tumor immunobiology and immunotherapy response may differ between African American and European American prostate cancer patients. Here, we determine if men of African descent harbor a unique systemic immune-oncological signature and measure 82 circulating proteins in almost 3000 Ghanaian, African American, and European American men. Protein signatures for suppression of tumor immunity and chemotaxis are elevated in men of West African ancestry. Importantly, the suppression of tumor immunity protein signature associates with metastatic and lethal prostate cancer, pointing to clinical importance. Moreover, two markers, pleiotrophin and TNFRSF9, predict poor disease survival specifically among African American men. These findings indicate that immune-oncology marker profiles differ between men of African and European descent. These differences may contribute to the disproportionate burden of lethal prostate cancer in men of African ancestry. The elevated peripheral suppression of tumor immunity may have important implication for guidance of cancer therapy which could particularly benefit African American patients.
Cold preferentially down regulates β3-adrenergic receptor mRNA and signal transduction in brown adipose tissue of young compared with senescent rats. β3-adrencrgic receptor (β3AR) signal transduction declines with age in brown adipose tissue (BAT). Cold exposure restores β3AR responsiveness in senescent rats. To determine if cold exposure upregulates β3ARs and signal transduction, we examined β3AR mRNA and isoproterenol (ISO) and the β3-agonist, BRL 37344 (BRL) stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity (AC) in BAT from rats of 4 and 24 m of ages following 2-day cold exposure at 8°C. β3AR mRNA declined by 30% with age (100 ± 11 arbitrary units, 4m; 70 ± 8, 24 m, p <.05) and by 60% with cold exposure in the young (40 ± 5, p <.001). In contrast, cold did not alter β3AR mRNA in senescent rats (70 ± 9). β1AR mRNA levels were unchanged by age or cold exposure. AC stimulated by ISO (141 ± 15 vs 84 ± 4, pmol cAMP/mg/min) and BRL (107 ± 10 vs 66 ± 9) declined with age (p <.01). With cold, ISO AC declined by 40% (86 ± 8) and BRL AC by 75% (24 ± 6) in young but not in senescent (84 ± 4 vs 78 ± 6, ISO; 66 ± 9 vs 64 ± 11, BRL) rats. ISO AC dose response curves were resolved into β1AR and β3AR stimulatory components. In young rats, cold did not change the β1AR component but abolished the β3AR component. In senescent rats, total AC was less than in young, but there was no change in either the β1AR or β3AR components with cold. These data suggest that cold exposure desensitizes β3AR signal transduction and down regulates β3AR mRNA preferential in young rats. The lack of down regulation in senescent rats may be contributing to restoration of β3AR signal transduction following cold exposure in senescent rats.
Antisense oligonucleotides, a novel tool for the control of cytokine effects on human cartilage. focus on interleukins 1 and 6 and proteoglycan synthesis. Objective. To prevent the negative effects of interleukin–1 (IL–1) and IL–1—induced IL–6 on cartilage proteoglycan (PG) synthesis, we used an antisense oligonucleotide (ASO) specific for IL–6 messenger RNA (mRNA) to inhibit IL–6 production. Methods. Explants of human articular cartilage were cultured in the presence or absence of IL–6—ASO, IL–1, and exogenous IL–6. As metabolic parameters, cartilage production of IL–6 was determined in the B9 bioassay and PG as incorporation of 35SO4. Results. The IL–6—ASO prevented IL–1—induced production of IL–6 in the cartilage explants, as well as IL–1—induced inhibition of PG synthesis. This inhibition was restored, despite the presence of IL–6—ASO, when exogenous IL–6 was added. A control ASO (not specific for IL–6 mRNA) was not effective. Conclusion. The IL–6—ASO used can penetrate the extracellular matrix of articular cartilage, enter the chondrocytes, and inhibit the IL–1—induced production of IL–6. Furthermore, IL–6—ASO can prevent the IL–1—induced inhibition of cartilage PG synthesis. The effect of exogenous IL–6 shows that IL–1 requires IL–6 for inhibition of PG synthesis.
The regulation of interferon type I pathway-related genes RSAD2 and ETV7 specifically indicates antibody-mediated rejection after kidney transplantation. Context: Antibody-mediated rejection (ABMR) after kidney transplantation (KTx) remains the crucial obstacle to successful long-term graft function. The identification of gene signatures involved in ABMR could grant the basis for better prevention and treatment strategies. Objective: The identification of gene signatures in whole blood cells specific for ABMR after KTx. Materials and methods: Total RNA from blood cells of 16 kidney-transplanted patients with ABMR, stable graft function (SGF), and with T-cell-mediated rejection (TCMR) was isolated. Gene expression was determined by high-throughput sequencing followed by validation and analyses of differentially expressed candidates on mRNA level and on protein level in a large patient cohort (n\xa0=\xa0185) in patients with SGF, urinary tract infection (UTI), borderline rejection (BL), TCMR, ABMR, and interstitial fibrosis and tubular atrophy. Results: From the 570 genes detected, 111 discriminated ABMR from SGF and TCMR. A distinct enrichment of interferon (IFN) type I and type II signature gene set was observed. The expression of candidate genes IFIT1, ETV7, and RSAD2 distinguished ABMR patients from patients with SGF and also TCMR, whereas ETV7 and RSAD2 differentiated ABMR also from BL. Conclusion: The IFN-inducible genes ETV7 and RSAD2 represent specific biomarkers for ABMR episodes after KTx.
Isoflurane exposure regulates the cell viability and BDNF expression of astrocytes via upregulation of TREK-1. Neonatal isoflurane exposure in rodents disrupts hippocampal cognitive functions, including learning and memory, and astrocytes may have an important role in this process. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying this disruption are not fully understood. The present study investigated the role of TWIK-related K+ channel (TREK-1) in isoflurane-induced cognitive impairment. Lentiviruses were used to overexpress or knockdown TREK-1 in astrocytes exposed to increasing concentrations of isoflurane or O2 for 2 h. Subsequently, the mRNA and protein expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), caspase-3, Bcl-2-associated X (Bax) and TREK-1 was measured by reverse transcriptionquantitative polymerase chain reaction and western blot analysis, respectively. In addition, cell viability was assessed by a 2-(4-Iodophenyl)-3-(4-nitrophenyl)-5-(2,4-disulfophenyl)-2H-tetrazolium monosodium salt assay. The results demonstrated that, prior to manipulating TREK-1, isoflurane significantly decreased the cell viability and BDNF expression, and increased Bax, caspase-3 and TREK-1 expression was observed. However, TREK-1 overexpression in astrocytes significantly downregulated BDNF expression, and upregulated Bax and caspase-3 expression. Furthermore, lentiviral-mediated short hairpin RNA knockdown of TREK-1 effectively inhibited the isoflurane-induced changes in BDNF, Bax and caspase-3 expression. Taken together, the results of the present study indicate that isoflurane-induced cell damage in astrocytes may be associated with TREK-1-mediated inhibition of BDNF and provide a reference for the safe use of isoflurane anesthesia in infants and children.
Differential protein profiling as a potential multi-marker approach for obese patients with heart failure: A retrospective study. Identification of novel circulating biomarkers predicting death and major cardio-metabolic events in obese patients with heart failure (HF) remains a research priority. In this study, we compared multi-marker profile of non-obese (NOB) and obese (OB) HF patients in relation to mortality outcome. The new multiplex proximity extension assay technology was used to analyze the levels of 92 proteins in plasma samples from HF patients according to body mass index (BMI) categories. At 2-year follow-up, all-cause mortality rates were significantly greater in NOB patients (BMI < 30 kg/m2) compared to the OB patients (BMI > 30 kg/m2) with HF (odds ratio 26; 95% CI: 1.14-624, p < 0,04). Quantitative proteomic analysis revealed thirteen distinct proteins expression profiles of OB and NOB HF patients. Among these proteins, RAGE, CXCL6, CXCL1, CD40, NEMO, VEGF-A, KLK6, PECAM1, PAR1, MMP1, BNP and NTproBNP were down-regulated, whereas leptin was up-regulated in OB HF patients. In addition, an inverse correlation between plasma BNP levels and leptin in OB HF patients was observed (r = -0.58 p = 0.02). This study identifies specific plasma protein signature in OB and NOB patients with HF in relation to mortality outcome.
Mutation analysis of the p51 gene and correlation between p53, p73, and p51 expressions in prostatic carcinoma. BACKGROUND. p73 and p51 are genes possessing amino-acid similarities to p53. We previously found no mutation in p73 in prostatic carcinoma, but did find abnormal expression of the gene. Involvement of these genes in prostatic carcinogenesis is still poorly understood. METHODS. Mutation analysis of the p51 gene and allelotyping of 3q28, on which p51 lies, were performed. Expression of p53, p73, and p51 was examined using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, and expression levels were compared. RESULTS. No mutation in p51 was found (0/55 cases). Loss of heterozygosity at 3q28 was detected in 6 of 28 cases (21.8%). By expression analysis we found that in p53, 4 of 38 cases (10.5%) showed downregulation. No cases showed upregulation of p53. In contrast, p73 and p51 were downregulated in 42.1 and 39.5% of cases, respectively, and upregulated in 31.5 and 34.2% of cases, respectively. Expression levels of p51 corresponded with those of p73 in 25 of 38 cases (65.8%). CONCLUSIONS. Somatic mutations in p73 and p51 are not important in prostatic carcinogenesis. These genes may be associated with tumors by expression levels and may have roles in addition to tumor suppression.
Peripheral Blood Circular RNAs as a Biomarker for Major Depressive Disorder and Prediction of Possible Pathways. Circular RNAs (circRNAs) are highly expressed in the central nervous system and have been reported to be associated with neuropsychiatric diseases, but their potential role in major depressive disorder (MDD) remains unclear. Here, we demonstrated that there was a disorder of circRNAs in the blood of MDD patients. It has been preliminarily proved that hsa_circ_0002473, hsa_circ_0079651, hsa_circ_0137187, hsa_circ_0006010, and hsa_circ_0113010 were highly expressed in MDD patients and can be used as diagnostic markers for MDD. Bioinformatics analysis revealed that hsa_circ_0079651, hsa_circ_0137187, hsa_circ_0006010, and hsa_circ_0113010 may affect the neuroplasticity of MDD through the ceRNA mechanism.
Molecular profiling of lamellar ichthyosis pathogenic missense mutations on the structural and stability aspects of TGM1 protein. Lamellar ichthyosis (LI) is a rare inherited disease where affected infants present a extensive skin scaling characterized by hyperkeratosis. Inherited mutations in the Transglutaminase 1 (TGM1) protein is one of the known causative genetic factor for the LI. The main objective of this study is to explore the impact of LI causative missense mutations on the structural and stability aspects of TGM1 protein using structural modeling, molecular docking and molecular dynamics approaches. By testing all LI causative TMG1 mutations against multiple stability prediction methods, we found that L362R and L388P mutations positioned in the Transglut_core domain were most destabilizing to the stability of TGM1 protein. These 2 mutations were 3D protein modeled and further analyzed by molecular docking and dynamic simulation methods. Molecular docking of these TGM1 mutant structures with chitosan, a natural polyphenolic compound and known inducer for transglutaminase enzyme, has shown stable molecular interactions between the native TGM1-chitosan and TGM1(L388P)-chitosan complex, when compared to the TGM1(L362R)-chitosan complex. Interestingly, molecular dynamics analysis have also yielded similar findings, where L388P-chitosan complex is shown to develop B-sheets and attain better stability, whereas TGM1-L362R complex possessed coils over the simulation period, pointing its highly destabilizing behavior on the protein structure. This study concludes that missense mutations in Transglut_core domain of the TGM1 are deleterious to the stability and structural changes of TGM1 protein and also suggest that chitosan molecule could act as a natural activator against few pathogenic TGM1 mutations.
Genetic susceptibility to autoimmune thyroid diseases in a Chinese Han population: Role of vitamin D receptor gene polymorphisms. Purpose: Previous studies have found that some immune-related genes were associated with autoimmune thyroid diseases (AITDs). A couple of studies have explored the association between vitamin D (1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3) receptor (VDR) gene polymorphisms and susceptibility to AITDs in different populations and found conflicting results. This case-control study was designed to evaluate the role of polymorphisms of VDR gene in the predisposition of AITDs in a Chinese Han population. Methods: A total of 417 patients with Graves' disease (GD), 250 patients with Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) and 301 healthy subjects were enrolled. The Matrix Assisted Laser Desorption Ionization-Time of Flight Mass Spectrometer (MALDI-TOF-MS) Platform was applied to detect four SNPs (rs1544410, rs2228570, rs731236 and rs7975232) in the VDR gene. Results: In the rs7975232 allele A frequency showed a significant increase in GD patients (30.34% vs. 25.42% in controls; P= 0.041, OR = 1.278, 95%CI = 1.010-1.617). However, no relationship was found between clinical phenotypes and the four SNPs. Conclusions: This result suggests that the VDR gene may be one susceptibility gene which contributes to the risk of GD.
Genomic imbalances in AIDS-related lymphomas: Relation with tumoral Epstein-Barr virus status. BACKGROUND: The pathologic heterogeneity of AIDS related lymphomas (ARL) reflects several pathogenic mechanisms: chronic antigenic stimulation, Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection, and genomic abnormalities. Genetic abnormalities, known to play a major role in lymphomas of non-immunocompromised patients, are not well characterized in ARL. OBJECTIVE: Characterization of the DNA copy number change (CNC) in ARL and comparison of our findings with tumoral EBV and immune status. DESIGN AND METHODS: We have studied by comparative genomic hybridization (CGH), 28 ARL well characterized for histopathologic, clonality and EBV findings. RESULTS: DNA-CNC were detected in 50% of cases. Gains of chromosomal material were much more frequent than losses and involved chromosomes 9p, 11q, 12q, 17q, and 19q recurrently. DNA-CNC tended to be more frequent in EBV-positive lymphomas with latency type II/III than in EBV-positive latency I or EBV-negative lymphomas. Most chromosomal regions affected in HIV-related lymphoma were similar to those already reported in HIV-negative lymphomas. CONCLUSION: This CGH study allowed the identification of non-random chromosomal alterations in ARL. The results suggested an inverse relationship between EBV infection (latency II/III), associated with deep acquired immune suppression, and the number of chromosomal alterations which may be explained by a direct role of viral proteins in lymphomagenesis by activation of signalling pathways without needing several genomic alterations.
A novel heterozygous mutation of three consecutive nucleotides causing Apert syndrome in a Congolese family. Apert syndrome (OMIM 101200) is a rare genetic condition characterized by craniosynostosis and syndactyly of hands and feet with clinical variability. Two single nucleotides mutations in the linker region between the immunoglobulin-like domains II and IIIa of the ectodomainin the Fibroblast Growth Factor Receptor 2 gene (FGFR2, OMIM 176943) are responsible of the vast majority of cases: c.755C>G; p.Ser252Trp (65%) and c.758C>G; p.Pro253Arg (34%. Three exceptional cases carry multiple substitutions of adjacent nucleotides in the linker region.Here we present a Congolese male patient and his mother, both affected with Apert syndrome of variable severity, carrying a previously undescribed heterozygous mutation of three consecutive nucleotides (c.756_758delGCCinsCTT) in the IgII-IgIIIa linker region. This is the fourth live-born patient to carry a multiple nucleotide substitution in the linker region and is the second alternative amino acid substitutions of the Pro253. Remarkably, this novel mutation was detected in the first Central African patient ever to be tested molecularly for the Apert syndrome. To discriminate between a hitherto unreported mutation and an ethnic specific polymorphism, we tested 105 Congolese controls, and no variation was detected.
X-linked borderline mental retardation with prominent behavioral disturbance: Phenotype, genetic localization, and evidence for disturbed monoamine metabolism. We have identified a large Dutch kindred with a new form of X-linked nondysmorphic mild mental retardation. All affected males in this family show very characteristic abnormal behavior, in particular aggressive and sometimes violent behavior. Other types of impulsive behavior include arson, attempted rape, and exhibitionism. Attempted suicide has been reported in a single case. The locus for this disorder could be assigned to the Xp11-21 interval between DXS7 and DXS77 by linkage analysis using markers spanning the X chromosome. A maximal multipoint lod score of 3.69 was obtained at the monoamine oxidase type A (MAOA) locus in Xp11.23-11.4. Results of 24-h urine analysis in three affected males indicated a marked disturbance of monoamine metabolism. These data are compatible with a primary defect in the structural gene for MAOA and/or monoamine oxidase type B (MAOB). Normal platelet MAOB activity suggests that the unusual behavior pattern in this family may be caused by isolated MAOA deficiency.
Structure and transcription promoter activity of mouse flap endonuclease 1 gene: Alternative splicing and bidirectional promoter. Flap endonuclease 1 (FEN1) is a structure-specific nuclease involved in DNA replication and repair. The mouse Fen1 gene, which has two exons, is located immediately adjacent to the gene corresponding to full-length cDNA of Riken 1810006K21 (1810006K21Rik) in a head-to-head orientation. Transcription initiation sites of each gene are 274 bp apart in the mouse genome. The spacer sequence between the bidirectional genes contains a CpG island, but lacks the typical TATA box. In the present study, transcription of the mFen1 gene was started from two initiation sites, and the first noncoding exon was spliced to the second exon using two different splicing donor sites, producing 3 kinds of mFen1 transcripts. A 594-bp fragment between the mFen1 and 1810006K21Rik genes, which contains two conserved sequence blocks (CSB) between mouse and human sequence, functions as a bidirectional promoter. The multiple cis-elements, including an Ets-binding site and E-box in the CSB, are involved in activation or repression of transcription in both directions. Interestingly, the E-box activates mFen1 transcription and simultaneously represses promoter activity in the opposite direction. Mutation of either splicing donor site of the mFen1 gene produced limiting alternative splicing products, but did not affect luciferase activity. In contrast, the splicing-defective mutation produced by disruption of the acceptor site completely lacked luciferase activity, indicating that the splicing has a significant effect on production of luciferase protein by shortening the 5′-untranslated region of the mRNA.'
Olig1 and Sox10 interact synergistically to drive myelin basic protein transcription in oligodendrocytes. The oligodendrocyte lineage genes (Olig1/2), encoding basic helix-loop-helix transcription factors, were first identified in screens for master regulators of oligodendrocyte development. OLIG1 is important for differentiation of oligodendrocyte precursors into myelin-forming oligodendrocytes during development and is thought to play a crucial role in remyelination during multiple sclerosis. However, it is still unclear how OLIG1 interacts with its transcriptional cofactors and DNA targets. OLIG1 was reportedly restricted to mammals, but we demonstrate here that zebrafish and other teleosts also possess an OLIG1 homolog. In zebrafish, as in mammals, Olig1 is expressed in the oligodendrocyte lineage. Olig1 associates physically with another myelin-associated transcription factor, Sox10, and the Olig1/Sox10 complex activates mbp (myelin basic protein) transcription via conserved DNA sequence motifs in the mbp promoter region. In contrast, Olig2 does not bind to Sox10 in zebrafish, although both OLIG1 and OLIG2 bind SOX10 in mouse.
miR-124 and miR-128 differential expression in bone marrow stromal cells and spinal cord-derived neural stem cells. Background: MicroRNA (miRNA) expression in stem cells provides important clues for the molecular mechanisms of stem cell proliferation and differentiation. Bone marrow stromal cells and spinal cord-derived neural stem cells exhibit potential for neural regeneration. However, miRNA expression in these cells has been rarely reported. Objective: To explore differential expression of two nervous system-specific miRNAs, miR-124 and miR-128, in bone marrow stromal cells and spinal cord-derived neural stem cells. Design, Time and Setting: An In vitro, cell biology experiment was performed at the Department of Biotechnology, Shanxi Medical University from June 2008 to June 2009. Meterials: TaqMan miRNA assays were purchased from Applied Biosystems. Methods: Rat bone marrow stromal cells were isolated and cultured using the whole-bone marrow method, and rat spinal cord-derived neural stem cells were obtained through neurosphere formation. TaqMan miRNA assays were used to measure miR-124 and miR-128 expression in bone marrow stromal cells and spinal cord-derived neural stem cells. Main Outcome Measures: Morphology of bone marrow stromal cells and spinal cord-derived neural stem cells were observed by inverted microscopy. Expression of the neural stem cell-specific marker, nestin, the bone marrow stromal cell surface marker, CD71, and expression of miR-124 and miR-128, were detected by real-time polymerase chain reaction. Results: Cultured bone marrow stromal cells displayed a short fusiform shape. Flow cytometry revealed a large number of CD71-positive cells (> 95%). Cultured spinal cord-derived neural stem cells formed nestin-positive neurospheres, and quantitative detection of miRNA demonstrated that less miR-124 and miR-128 was expressed in bone marrow stromal cells compared to spinal cord-derived neural stem cells (P < 0.05). Conclusion: Bone marrow stromal cells and spinal cord-derived neural stem cells exhibited differential expression of miR-124 and miR-128, which suggested different characteristics in miRNA expression.
MicroRNA expression pattern as an ancillary prognostic signature for radiotherapy 11 Medical and Health Sciences 1112 Oncology and Carcinogenesis. Background: In view of the limited knowledge of plasma biomarkers relating to cancer resistance to radiotherapy, we have set up screening, training and testing stages to investigate the microRNAs (miRNAs) expression profile in plasma to predict between the poor responsive and responsive groups after 6 months of radiotherapy. Methods: Plasma was collected prior to and after radiotherapy, and the microRNA profiles were analyzed by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) arrays. Candidate miRNAs were validated by single qRT-PCR assays from the training and testing set. The classifier for ancillary prognosis was developed by multiple logistic regression analysis to correlate the ratios of miRNAs expression levels with clinical data. Results: We revealed that eight miRNAs expressions had significant changes after radiotherapy and the expression levels of miR-374a-5p, miR-342-5p and miR-519d-3p showed significant differences between the responsive and poor responsive groups in the pre-radiotherapy samples. The Kaplan-Meier curve analysis also showed that low miR-342-5p and miR-519d-3p expressions were associated with worse prognosis. Our results revealed two miRNA classifiers from the pre- and post-radiotherapy samples to predict radiotherapy response with area under curve values of 0.8923 and 0.9405. Conclusions: The expression levels of miR-374a-5p, miR-342-5p and miR-519d-3p in plasma are associated with radiotherapy responses. Two miRNA classifiers could be developed as a potential non-invasive ancillary tool for predicting patient response to radiotherapy.
Intracellular ca2+ increases and connexin 43 hemichannel opening are necessary but not sufficient for thy-1-induced astrocyte migration. Under pro-inflammatory conditions, astrocytes become reactive and acquire a migratory phenotype. Our results show that hemichannels formed by connexin 43 (Cx43) play an important role in Thy-1-induced astrocyte migration. The neuronal protein Thy-1 binds to αvβ3 integrin in astrocytes, thereby leading to intricate signaling pathways that include calcium (Ca2+) release from intracellular stores, opening of Cx43 hemichannels, release of ATP, activation of P2X7 receptor, and Ca2+ influx. However, because these Thy-1 effects occur exclusively in reactive astrocytes, we wondered whether by elevating calcium levels and promoting hemichannel opening we could prompt non-reactive astrocytes to respond to Thy-1. Cx43 immunoreactivity increased at juxta-membrane sites, where hemichannels (not gap junctions) participate in astrocyte polarization and migration stimulated by Thy-1. Also, intracellular Ca2+ increase, due to ionomycin treatment, induced hemichannel opening, but activated astrocyte migration only partially, and this limitation was overcome by pre-treatment with tumor necrosis factor (TNF) and Thy-1. Finally, αvβ3 integrin formed membrane clusters after TNF stimulation or overexpression of β3 integrin. We suggest that these microclusters are required for cells to respond to Thy-1 stimulation. Therefore, the large increase in intracellular Ca2+ and hemichannel opening induced by ionomycin are required, but not sufficient, to permit Thy-1-induced astrocyte migration. Thus, we suggest that proinflammatory stimuli prompt astrocytes to respond to migratory signals of neuronal cells.
Fragment-Based Discovery of an Apolipoprotein E4 (apoE4) Stabilizer. Apolipoprotein E is a 299-residue lipid carrier protein produced in both the liver and the brain. The protein has three major isoforms denoted apoE2, apoE3, and apoE4 which differ at positions 112 and 158 and which occur at different frequencies in the human population. Genome-wide association studies indicate that the possession of two apoE4 alleles is a strong genetic risk factor for late-onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD). In an attempt to identify a small molecule stabilizer of apoE4 function that may have utility as a therapy for Alzheimer's disease, we carried out an NMR-based fragment screen on the N-terminal domain of apoE4 and identified a benzyl amidine based fragment binder. In addition to NMR, binding was characterized using various other biophysical techniques, and a crystal structure of the bound core was obtained. Core elaboration ultimately yielded a compound that showed activity in an IL-6 and IL-8 cytokine release assay
Serum osteoprotegerin (OPG) and the A163G polymorphism in the OPG promoter region are related to peripheral measures of bone mass and fracture odds ratios. The purpose of this study is to investigate the association of serum osteoprotegerin (OPG) and the A163G polymorphism in the OPG promoter with peripheral measures of bone mass and with odds ratios for wrist and hip fracture in a case-control study of postmenopausal Danish women. The study included 66 women with lower forearm fracture, 41 women with hip fracture, and 206 age-matched controls. All had broadband ultrasound attenuation (BUA) and speed of sound (SOS) measured at the heel as well as bone mineral density (BMD) measured by DXA at the distal forearm. S-OPG was measured by ELISA. The A163G genotypes were determined by PCR-RFLP analysis. S-OPG levels correlated positively with age (r = 0.45; P < 0.0001) and negatively with distal forearm BMD (r = -0.31; P < 0.0001), heel BUA (r = -0.23; P < 0.0001), and heel SOS (r = -0.22; P < 0.0001). Comparing the highest quartile of S-OPG to the lowest, the odds ratio for osteoporotic fracture was 2.5 (95% CI, 1.3-4.7; P = 0.006). The G allele of the A163G was associated with significantly lower t-scores of both lower forearm BMD, heel BUA, and heel SOS as well as being significantly more frequent in the fracture patients compared to the controls. Patients with a combination of the highest quartile of S-OPG and presence of the G allele (n = 23) had a significantly elevated fracture odds ratio, 4.0 (95% CI, 1.7-9.9). A significant negative association between S-OPG with peripheral measures of bone mass and with increased fracture odds ratios was found. Furthermore, the A163G mutation in the OPG promoter had a significant influence on bone mass and fracture status independently of S-OPG level.
The structure, function, and expression of interleukin-2 receptors on normal and malignant lymphocytes. Antigen or mitogen-induced activation of resting T cells induces the synthesis of interleukin-2 (IL-2) as well as the expression of specific cell surface receptors for this lymphokine. Failure of the production of either IL-2 or its receptor results in a failure of the T-cell immune response. The receptor is composed of a 33,000-dalton (251-amino acid) peptide precursor that is post-translationally glycosylated into the mature 55,000-dalton form. In contrast to resting T cells, human T-cell lymphotrophic virus I (HTLV-I)-associated adult T-cell leukemia cells constitutively express large numbers of IL-2 receptors. Because IL-2 receptors are present on the malignant T cells but not on normal resting cells, clinical trials have been initiated in which patients with adult T-cell leukemia are treated with a monoclonal antibody that binds to the IL-2 receptor.
CYP3A7*1C allele: linking premenopausal oestrone and progesterone levels with risk of hormone receptor-positive breast cancers. Background: Epidemiological studies provide strong evidence for a role of endogenous sex hormones in the aetiology of breast cancer. The aim of this analysis was to identify genetic variants that are associated with urinary sex-hormone levels and breast cancer risk. Methods: We carried out a genome-wide association study of urinary oestrone-3-glucuronide and pregnanediol-3-glucuronide levels in 560 premenopausal women, with additional analysis of progesterone levels in 298 premenopausal women. To test for the association with breast cancer risk, we carried out follow-up genotyping in 90,916 cases and 89,893 controls from the Breast Cancer Association Consortium. All women were of European ancestry. Results: For pregnanediol-3-glucuronide, there were no genome-wide significant associations; for oestrone-3-glucuronide, we identified a single peak mapping to the CYP3A locus, annotated by rs45446698. The minor rs45446698-C allele was associated with lower oestrone-3-glucuronide (−49.2%, 95% CI −56.1% to −41.1%, P = 3.1 × 10–18); in follow-up analyses, rs45446698-C was also associated with lower progesterone (−26.7%, 95% CI −39.4% to −11.6%, P = 0.001) and reduced risk of oestrogen and progesterone receptor-positive breast cancer (OR = 0.86, 95% CI 0.82–0.91, P = 6.9 × 10–8). Conclusions: The CYP3A7*1C allele is associated with reduced risk of hormone receptor-positive breast cancer possibly mediated via an effect on the metabolism of endogenous sex hormones in premenopausal women.
Genetics of Malaria Inflammatory Responses: A Pathogenesis Perspective. Despite significant progress in combating malaria in recent years the burden of severe disease and death due to Plasmodium infections remains a global public health concern. Only a fraction of infected people develops severe clinical syndromes motivating a longstanding search for genetic determinants of malaria severity. Strong genetic effects have been repeatedly ascribed to mutations and allelic variants of proteins expressed in red blood cells but the role of inflammatory response genes in disease pathogenesis has been difficult to discern. We revisited genetic evidence provided by inflammatory response genes that have been repeatedly associated to malaria, namely TNF, NOS2, IFNAR1, HMOX1, TLRs, CD36, and CD40LG. This highlighted specific genetic variants having opposing roles in the development of distinct malaria clinical outcomes and unveiled diverse levels of genetic heterogeneity that shaped the complex association landscape of inflammatory response genes with malaria. However, scrutinizing genetic effects of individual variants corroborates a pathogenesis model where pro-inflammatory genetic variants acting in early infection stages contribute to resolve infection but at later stages confer increased vulnerability to severe organ dysfunction driven by tissue inflammation. Human genetics studies are an invaluable tool to find genes and molecular pathways involved in the inflammatory response to malaria but their precise roles in disease pathogenesis are still unexploited. Genome editing in malaria experimental models and novel genotyping-by-sequencing techniques are promising approaches to delineate the relevance of inflammatory response gene variants in the natural history of infection thereby will offer new rational angles on adjuvant therapeutics for prevention and clinical management of severe malaria.
Comprehensive Analyses of the Expression, Genetic Alteration, Prognosis Significance, and Interaction Networks of m6A Regulators Across Human Cancers. Accumulating lines of evidence indicate that the deregulation of m6A is involved in various cancer types. The m6A RNA methylation is modulated by m6A methyltransferases, demethylases, and reader proteins. Although the aberrant expression of m6A RNA methylation contributes to the development and progression of multiple cancer types, the roles of m6A regulators across numerous types of cancers remain largely unknown. Here, we comprehensively investigated the expression, genetic alteration, and prognosis significance of 20 commonly studied m6A regulators across diverse cancer types using TCGA datasets via bioinformatic analyses. The results revealed that the m6A regulators exhibited widespread dysregulation, genetic alteration, and the modulation of oncogenic pathways across TCGA cancer types. In addition, most of the m6A regulators were closely relevant with significant prognosis in many cancer types. Furthermore, we also constructed the protein–protein interacting network of the 20 m6A regulators, and a more complex interacting regulatory network including m6A regulators and their corresponding interacting factors. Besides, the networks between m6A regulators and their upstream regulators such as miRNAs or transcriptional factors were further constructed in this study. Finally, the possible chemicals targeting each m6A regulator were obtained by bioinformatics analysis and the m6A regulators–potential drugs network was further constructed. Taken together, the comprehensive analyses of m6A regulators might provide novel insights into the m6A regulators’ roles across cancer types and shed light on their potential molecular mechanisms as well as help develop new therapy approaches for cancers
Understanding the functional role of genistein in the bone differentiation in mouse osteoblastic cell line MC3T3-E1 by RNA-seq analysis. Genistein, a phyto-estrogen, can potentially replace endogenous estrogens in postmenopausal women, but the underlying molecular mechanisms remain incompletely understood. To obtain insight into the effect of genistein on bone differentiation, RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) analysis was used to detect differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in genistein-treated vs. untreated MC3T3-E1 mouse osteoblastic cells. Osteoblastic cell differentiation was monitored by measuring osteoblast differentiation factors (ALP production, bone mineralization, and expression of osteoblast differentiation markers). From RNA-seq analysis, a total of 132 DEGs (including 52 up-regulated and 80 down-regulated genes) were identified in genistein-treated cells (FDR q-value < 0.05 and fold change > 1.5). KEGG pathway and Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment analyses were performed to estimate the biological functions of DEGs and demonstrated that these DEGs were highly enriched in functions related to chemotactic cytokines. The functional relevance of DEGs to genistein-induced osteoblastic cell differentiation was further evaluated by siRNA-mediated knockdown in MC3T3-E1 cells. These siRNA knockdown experiments (of the DEGs validated by real-time qPCR) demonstrated that two up-regulated genes (Ereg and Efcab2) enhance osteoblastic cell differentiation, while three down-regulated genes (Hrc, Gli, and Ifitm5) suppress the differentiation. These results imply their major functional roles in bone differentiation regulated by genistein.
Construction of stable focal adhesion kinase knockdown cell line and preliminary study of its properties. Malignant melanoma still remains to be a serious health threat. Overexpression of focal adhesion kinase (FAK) in melanoma has suggested that FAK could be a promising target for therapeutic intervention. To further investigate the function of FAK in melanoma, FAK expression was down-regulated by stable transfection of plasmid harboring FAK small interfering RNA (siRNA) into melanoma cell line. Two stable cell lines, F10-siFAK and F10-control, have been constructed and screened. Compared with the F10-control, both the mRNA and protein levels of FAK decreased significantly, and the cell cycle of F10-siFAK was arrested at G1 phase. Furthermore, the tumor growth rate of F10-siFAK cells was notably slower than that of F10-control in in vivo tumor models. These results show that FAK is an important regulatory gene in melanoma. The stable FAK-knockdown melanoma cell line is an useful tool for further investigation of FAK's function in the progression of melanoma, and also an effective means of drug screening for anti-melanoma therapeutics.
Anti-Myelin Oligodendrocyte Glycoprotein Encephalomyelitis and Extensive Longitudinal Transverse Myelitis Associated with Compound Heterozygous NLRP3 Missense Mutations in a Young Child. Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis in association with extensive longitudinal transverse myelitis is reported in a young child with positive anti-myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) antibody with heterozygous NLRP3 missense mutations; p.(Arg488Lys) and p.(Ser159Ile). This case may well present an exceptional coincidence, but may describe a yet unrecognized feature of the spectrum of childhood onset cryopyrinopathies that contribute to the understanding of the genetic basis for anti-MOG antibody positive encephalomyelitis. Based on this observation, a larger scale study investigating the role of NLRP3 and other inflammasomes in this entity would provide important pathophysiological insights and potentially novel avenues for treatment.
p53 alteration and chromosomal instability in prostatic high-grade intraepithelial neoplasia and concurrent carcinoma: Analysis by immunohistochemistry, interphase in situ hybridization, and sequencing of laser-captured microdissected specimens. p53 mutation has been shown to be associated with chromosomal instability (CI) in many human dysplastic and neoplastic lesions. However, the precise role of p53 in the pathogenesis of prostate carcinoma (Pca) is unknown. Topographic analysis of p53 alteration using immunohistochemistry (IHC) was performed on 35 archived prostatectomy specimens containing Pca foci; high-grade prostrate intraepithelial neoplasia (HPIN) foci intermingled with cancer (HPINI) and situated away (HPINA). Specimens from 2 patients were topographically genotyped using laser capture microdissection, PCR amplification, and direct sequencing of p53 exons 5-9. CI was evaluated in the same tissue foci by interphase in situ hybridization (IFISH) using centromere probes for chromosomes 7, 8, and Y. p53 immunoreactivity was found in 20%, 17%, 0, and 0 in Pca, HPINI, HPINA, and benign epithelium, respectively. p53 molecular analysis in the specimens examined confirmed the IHC findings. IFISH revealed numerical chromosomal alterations in keeping with CI in 71% and 25% of p53+ and p53- Pca, respectively (P = .1), 67% and 0 of p53+ and p53HPIN, respectively (P < .02), and in 27% and 0 of HPINI and HPINA, respectively. We concluded that p53 mutation is an early change in at least a subset of Pca. HPINI foci tend to have higher overall p53 immunoreactivity and CI than HPINA. The presence of p53 mutation in HPIN was associated with the presence of CI as determined by IFISH. Our study also provided additional evidence in support of the concept that HPIN might be the earliest precursor of cancer. Furthermore, our studies identify genomic similarities in HPINI and Pca, implying that carcinoma may arise from progression of certain HPIN foci that most likely harbor p53 mutation and/or more CI.
Identification of ataxia telangiectasia heterozygotes by flow cytometric analysis of X-ray damage. Flow cytometry was used to identify heterozygotes for the autosomal recessive DNA-repair deficiency disease ataxia telangiectasia (AT). Confluent G0/G1 fibroblasts from 4 homozygotes (at/at), 5 obligate heterozygotes (at/+) and 7 presumed normal controls (+/+) were X-irradiated with 200 Rad and subcultured immediately in medium containing 5-bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU). Cells were harvested 72 h later and stained with fluoresceinated anti-BrdU antibody to identify cells that had entered S phase. They were counterstained with propidium iodide to measure total DNA content. On the basis of relative release from G0/G1 the at/+ strains as a group (33 ± 3% release) were distinguished from both the presumed +/+ strains (60 ± 3%), although the individual values for some strains did show overlap between genotypes. When 10 cell strains were coded and analyzed in 'blind' experiments, all 4 heterozygotes were correctly assigned, although one poorly growing presumed normal line was incorrectly assigned as a heterozygote. By a similar assay in which exponentially growing cultures were pulsed briefly with BrdU 8 h after irradiation with 400 Rad and then harvested immediately, presumed +/+ cells as a group could be distinguished from at/at cells but not from at/- cells. This combination of assays assits in the identification of all 3 AT genotypes. This should be of both basic and diagnostic use, particularly in families known to segregate AT.
Roles of Met-34, Cys-64, and Arg-75 in the assembly of human connexin 26: Implication for key amino acid residues for channel formation and function. Connexins form a family of membrane proteins that assemble into communication channels and directly connect the cytoplasms of adjoining cells. Malfunctioning of connexin channels often cause disease, such as the mutations M34T and R75W in human connexin 26, which are associated with hereditary deafness. Another residue known to be essential for normal channel activity in the connexin is Cys-64. To obtain structural and functional insights of connexin 26, we studied the roles of these three residues by expressing mutant connexins in insect Sf9 and HeLa cells. The M34T and M34A mutants both formed gap junction plaques, but dye transfer assays showed that the M34A mutant had a significantly reduced permeability, suggesting that for proper channel function a side chain of adequate size is required at this position. We propose that Met-34 is located in the innermost helix of the channel, where it ensures a fully open channel structure via interactions with other transmembrane helices. Gap junction channels formed by the R75W and R75D mutants dissociated upon solubilization in dodecyl maltoside, whereas the R75A mutant remained hexameric. All gap junctions formed by Arg-75 mutants also showed only negligible activity in dye transfer experiments. These results suggest that residue Arg-75 plays a role in subunit interactions needed to retain a functional and stable connexin hexamer. The C64S mutant was suggested to be defective in oligomerization and/or protein folding even in the presence of wild-type connexin.
LncRNA-AK017233 expression is down-regulated in urethane-induced mouse lung tumors. OBJECTIVE: To explore the dynamic change of IncRNA expression during lung carcinogenesis induced by urethane. METHODS: A total of 40 BALB/c mice received weekly ip injection of urethane 1 g·kg-1 for four continuous weeks, mice were euthanized at 12th week or 24th week after the first urethane treatment, respectively. The RNA of lung tissues were isolated and used for microarray analysis. Based on the results of the microarray we selected IncRNA-AK017233 for additional qPCR analysis in individual mouse. RESULTS: The incidence of lung cancer were 85% and 100% at 12th week and 24th week after the first administration of urethane, respectively. The multiplicity and diameter of lung tumors in 24 weeks treated group were statistically significant from those in 12 weeks treated group (P<0.01), and pathological analysis showed that tumors were classifiable as moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma. Total of 26 Down-regulated IncRNAs in which IncRNA-AK017233 stand for the most down-regulated IncRNA were identified by microcarray analysis. qPCR detected that the IncRNA-AK017233 was significantly altered by 0.33 times in lung tumors of urethane treated group at 12th week, compared to parallel lung tissues in urethane treated group at 12th week. AK017233 expression of urethane treated group was significantly reduced by 0.22 times at 24th week, compared to parallel lung tissues in urethane treated group at 24th week. CONCLUSION: LncRNA-AK017233 was consistently down-regulated during urethane induced lung carcinogenesis.
The major dermatomyositis‐specific mi‐2 autoantigen is a presumed helicase involved in transcriptional activation. Objective. To characterize the complementary DNA (cDNA) and protein sequences of autoantigens recognized by anti–Mi‐2 antibodies, using recombinant Mi‐2 proteins for improved autoantibody detection. Methods. A cDNA expression library was immunoscreened, and cDNA isolation, alignment, and sequence analysis were performed. Northern blotting and in situ hybridization techniques were used. A recombinant protein (rMi‐2) was synthesized. Immunoprecipitation of 35S‐methionine–labeled HEp‐2 cell proteins and immunoblotting of rMi‐2 and natural nuclear proteins were performed. Immunofluorescence studies were done with anti–Mi‐2 positive sera of dermatomyositis (DM) patients, and with human or rabbit antibodies specific for rMi‐2. Antibody screening of systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, DM, and antinuclear antibody–positive human sera was performed using an rMi‐2 protein enzyme‐linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Results. A major antigen recognized by anti–Mi‐2 positive sera of DM patients was found to constitute a 218‐kd nuclear protein (218‐kd Mi‐2) encoded on chromosome 12 and to belong to the SNF2/RAD 54 helicase family. Human and rabbit antibodies that were affinity purified using the recombinant protein reacted with and precipitated a nuclear protein of similar size, which was also recognized by anti–Mi‐2 sera. Anti–218‐kd Mi‐2 antibodies detected by rMi‐2 protein ELISA seemed to be mainly restricted to sera from patients with DM. Conclusion. The molecular characterization of the 218‐kd Mi‐2 antigen may contribute to our understanding of autoimmune phenomena in DM. The use of immunoreactive recombinant proteins allows structural and functional studies of the helicase and the development of sensitive and accurate antibody screening tests.
Long term endocrine regulation of nucleoside transporters in rat intestinal epithelial cells. We studied the regulation of nucleoside transporters in intestinal epithelial cells upon exposure to either differentiating or proliferative agents. Rat intestinal epithelial cells (line IEC-6) were incubated in the presence of differentiating (glucocorticoids) or proliferative (EGF and TGF-α) agents. Nucleoside uptake rates and nucleoside transporter protein and mRNA levels were assessed. The signal transduction pathways used by the proliferative stimuli were analyzed. We found that glucocorticoids induce an increase in sodium-dependent, concentrative nucleoside transport rates and in protein and mRNA levels of both rCNT2 and rCNT1, with negligible effects on the equilibrative transporters. EGF and TGF-α induce an increase in the equilibrative transport rate, mostly accounted for by an increase in rENT1 activity and mRNA levels, rENT2 mRNA levels remaining unaltered. This effect is mimicked by another proliferative stimulus that functions as an in vitro model of epithelial wounding. Here, rENT1 activity and mRNA levels are also increased, although the signal transduction pathways used by the two stimuli are different. We concluded that differentiation of rat intestinal epithelial cells is accompanied by increased mature enterocyte features, such as concentrative nucleoside transport (located at the brush border membrane of the enterocyte), thus preparing the cell for its ultimate absorptive function. A proliferative stimulus induces the equilibrative nucleoside activities (mostly through ENT1) known to be located at the basolateral membrane, allowing the uptake of nucleosides from the bloodstream for the increased demands of the proliferating cell.
Decrease of PDSS2 expression, a novel tumor suppressor, in non-small cell lung cancer. Background: Prenyl diphosphate synthase subunit 2 (PDSS2) gene has recently been reported as a potential tumor suppressor. The association of PDSS2 and non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) has not been known. Methods: To investigate its association with NSCLC, we examined the expression level of PDSS2 in 28 paired clinical samples of non-small cell lung cancer tissues and surrounding normal tissues. Results: PDSS2 was constitutionally expressed in normal lung tissues regardless of sex, race and smoking history. An overall decreased PDSS2 expression was found in the tumor tissues compared to surrounding normal tissues. Decrease in PDSS2 expression was more severe in poorly and poor-to-moderately differentiated lung cancers, while the decrease was not significant in moderately to well-differentiated tumors. Moreover, the expression of PDSS2 decreased more in higher pathological stage, and in patients with lymph node metastasis. The decrease in PDSS2 expression in tumor tissues was not related to sex or histological type of NSCLC, but was related to smoking history. No correlation has been found between PDSS2 and the clinical factors of EGRF, Ki-67 and p53. Conclusion: Taken together, decreased expression of PDSS2 in NSCLC was evident. This is an initial report for the expression of PDSS2 in relation to different factors in lung cancer. Loss of PDSS2 could serve as a potential biomarker in NSCLC development. The role of PDSS2 as a tumor suppressor, and the mechanism of its potential anti-tumor action in NSCLC warrant further investigation.
Ischaemia/reperfusion induced cardiac stem cell homing to the injured myocardium by stimulating stem cell factor expression via NF-κB pathway. Ischaemia/reperfusion (I/R) is a major cause of heart failure. Recently cardiac stem cells (CSCs) were proposed as the most appropriate cell type for heart disease therapy. However, it is still unclear whether I/R can stimulate the CSCs homing to the injured myocardium. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to a 30-min ischaemia followed by reperfusion of different intervals. RT-PCR, western blotting and immunohistochemistry were performed to detect stem cell factor (SCF) expression at mRNA and protein levels respectively. Activation of nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) was determined by electrophoretic mobility shift assay. To assess the homing of CSCs in vivo, BrdU-labelled CSCs were injected into AV-groove before induction of ischaemia and examined by immunofluorescent staining in the injured myocardium after I/R. From day 3 to day 6 after reperfusion, the accumulation of CSCs was significantly elevated in the injured area, which was matched with the increased SCF expression during I/R. Pretreatment of rats with NF-κB inhibitor, N-acetyl-l-cysteine (NAC) not only suppressed NF-κB activation induced by I/R but also attenuated SCF expression. Further analysis revealed that I/R induced phosphorylation of IκBα after 15 min of reperfusion, and the raised phosphor-IκBα returned to the basal level at 2 h of reperfusion. In simulated I/R(SI/R) in vitro, it enhanced NF-κB activation and SCF expression in cultured neonatal rat cardiomyocytes, which was markedly inhibited by NF-κB decoy oligodeoxynucleotide or NAC. Taken together, our results demonstrated that I/R induced CSCs homing to the injured myocardium by stimulating myocardial SCF expression via activation of NF-κB.
Differential nonsense mediated decay of mutated mRNAs in mismatch repair deficient colorectal cancers. The nonsense-mediated decay (NMD) system normally targets mRNAs with premature termination codons (PTCs) for rapid degradation. We investigated for a putative role of NMD in cancers with microsatellite instability (MSI-H cancers), because numerous mutant mRNAs containing PTC are generated in these tumors as a consequence of their mismatch repair deficiency. Using a quantitative RT-PCR approach in a large series of colorectal cancer cell lines, we demonstrate a significantly increased rate of degradation of mutant mRNAs containing a PTC compared with wild-type. A specific siRNA strategy was used to inhibit RENT-1 and/ or RENT-2 activity, two major genes in the NMD system. This allowed us to show that increased degradation of PTC-containing mRNAs in MSI-H tumors was partly dependent upon NMD activity. The efficiency of NMD for the degradation of mutant mRNAs from target genes was highly variable in these cancers. NMD degraded some of them (TGFβRII, MSH3, GRK4), although allowing the persistent expression of others (BAX, TCF-4). This is of particular interest within the context of a proposed conservation of biological activity for the corresponding mutated proteins. We thus propose that NMD might play an important role in the selection of target gene mutations with a functional role in MSI-H carcinogenesis.
Complete transformation by adenovirus 2 requires both E1A proteins. Rodent cells transformed by adenovirus 2 (Ad2) express two highly related viral proteins of 289 and 243 amino acids encoded in early region 1A (E1A). Transformation studies were performed with adenovirus mutants that express only one or the other E1A protein. We found that the 289 amino acid protein, which has transcription inducing activity, and the 243 amino acid protein, which has little if any of this activity, were both required to produce the fully transformed phenotype. Expression of either E1A protein induced a partially transformed phenotype. The 243 amino acid protein was particularly important for anchorage independent growth. As found in previous studies with several other E1A mutants, the process of transformation by the mutant that expresses the 243 amino acid protein only was cold-sensitive. While the 289 amino acid protein is the only E1A protein required for efficient viral replication under standard cell culture conditions, the 243 amino acid protein in addition to the 289 amino acid protein was found to be required for efficient viral replication in growth-arrested human cells.
SIRT1 suppresses cellular accumulation of β-TrCP E3 ligase via protein degradation. β-Transducin repeat-containing protein (β-TrCP), an E3 ligase, promotes the degradation of substrate proteins in response to various stimuli. Even though several β-TrCP substrates have been identified to date, limited information of its upstream regulators is available. Here, we showed that SIRT1 suppresses β-TrCP protein synthesis via post-translational degradation. SIRT1 depletion led to a significant increase in the β-TrCP accumulation without affecting the mRNA level. Consistently, β-TrCP protein accumulation induced by resveratrol was further enhanced upon SIRT1 depletion. Rescue of SIRT1 reversed the effect of resveratrol, leading to reduced β-TrCP protein levels. Proteasomal inhibition led to recovery of β-TrCP in cells with SIRT1 overexpression. Notably, the recovered β-TrCP colocalized mostly with SIRT1. Thus, SIRT1 acts as a negative regulator of β-TrCP synthesis via promoting protein degradation.
Mast cell chymase affects the functional properties of primary human airway fibroblasts: Implications for asthma. Background: Mast cells (MCs) have a profound impact on allergic asthma. Under such conditions, MCs undergo degranulation, resulting in the release of exceptionally large amounts of MC-restricted proteases. However, the role of these proteases in asthma is only partially understood. Objectives: We sought to test our hypothesis that MC proteases can influence the functionality of human lung fibroblasts (HLFs). Methods: Primary HLFs were treated with MC chymase or tryptase, followed by assessment of parameters related to fibroblast function. Results: HLFs underwent major morphologic changes in response to chymase, showing signs of cellular contraction, but were refractory to tryptase. However, no effects of chymase on HLF viability or proliferation were seen. Chymase, but not tryptase, had a major impact on the output of extracellular matrix–associated compounds from the HLFs, including degradation of fibronectin and collagen-1, and activation of pro–matrix metalloprotease 2. Further, chymase induced the release of various chemotactic factors from HLFs. In line with this, conditioned medium from chymase-treated HLFs showed chemotactic activity on neutrophils. Transcriptome analysis revealed that chymase induced a proinflammatory gene transcription profile in HLFs, whereas tryptase had minimal effects. Conclusions: Chymase, but not tryptase, has a major impact on the phenotype of primary airway fibroblasts by modifying their output of extracellular matrix components and by inducing a proinflammatory phenotype.
Cadherin junctions in mammary tumors. Cadherins are the transmembrane component of adherens junctions found between interacting cells in tissues. The cadherins bind cells to one another in a specific manner and link to the actin cytoskeleton through intracellular catenins. In addition to promoting strong cell-cell adhesion, cadherins appear to initiate and modify intracellular signaling pathways. The loss of E-cadherin function in epithelial cells is thought to be an important step in tumorigenesis. Moreover, anomalous expression of inappropriate cadherins in epithelial cells alters their behavior and may contribute to the tumorigenic phenotype. For breast cancer the decreased expression of E-cadherin alone may have limited value as a prognostic indicator; however, examining the repertoire of cadherins and catenins expressed by tumors may provide useful prognostic information.
Plasma miR-155, mir-203, and miR-205 are biomarkers for monitoring of primary cutaneous T-cell lymphomas. Primary cutaneous T-cell lymphomas (CTCL) affect the skin and tend to transform and spread. CTCL involves primarily the Mycosis fungoides (MF) and more aggressive Sezary syndrome (SS). Oncogenic microRNAs (miRs) are stable epigenetic inhibitors often deregulated in the tumour and detectable as biomarkers in non-cellular fractions of peripheral blood. The tumour-specific expression of miR-155, miR-203, and miR-205 was shown to correctly diagnose CTCL. We herein asked whether these microRNAs can be used as plasma biomarkers for clinical CTCL monitoring. Patients with CTCL (n = 10) and controls with non-malignant conditions (n = 11) repeatedly donated plasma samples every ca. five months. MicroRNAs were detected in the plasma samples by specifically-primed RT-PCR followed by multivariate analyses of the miR expression dynamics. We herein established the plasma miR-classifier for detecting CTCL based on the miR-155 upregulation and miR-203/miR-205 downregulation with 100% specificity and 94% sensitivity. The 3-miR-score in the consecutive samples coincided with the clinical outcome of MF and SS patients such as the therapy response or changes in the clinical stage or tumor size. Quantitation of the selected microRNAs in plasma is a specific and straightforward approach for evaluating CTCL outcome representing, thus, a valuable tool for CTCL diagnostics and therapy response monitoring.
Inhibitor of growth tumor suppressors in cancer progression. The inhibitor of growth (ING) family of tumor suppressors has five members and is implicated in the control of apoptosis, senescence, DNA repair, and cancer progression. However, little is known about ING activity in the regulation of cancer progression. ING members and splice variants seem to behave differently with respect to cancer invasion and metastasis. Interaction with histone trimethylated at lysine 4 (H3K4me3), hypoxia inducible factor-1 (HIF-1), p53, and nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB) are potential mechanisms by which ING members exert effects on invasion and metastasis. Subcellular mislocalization, rapid protein degradation, and to a lesser extent ING gene mutation are among the mechanisms responsible for inappropriate ING levels in cancer cells. The aim of this review is to summarize the different roles of ING family tumor suppressors in cancer progression and the molecular mechanisms involved.
Nucleotide Sequence of the Simian Virus 40 Hind II + III Restriction Fragment J and the Total Amino Acid Sequence of the Major Structural Protein VP1. The HindII + III restriction fragment J (Hind‐J) represents 4.58% of the simian virus 40 genome. The information present in Hind‐J is expressed as part of the major, late 16‐S messenger RNA, which codes for the structural protein VP1. The nucleotide sequence of the 240‐base‐pairs‐long Hind fragment J has been determined by analysis of each oligonucleotide from both strands resulting from T1 or pancreatic RNase digestion of RNA transcribed from the DNA and from RNase digestion of ribo‐substituted DNA. Large oligonucleotide blocks which could be constructed mainly on the basis of complementarity were subsequently ordered by partial chemical degradation of terminally labeled DNA. This direct DNA sequencing approach also completely confirmed the results obtained by both aforementioned RNase degradation methods. In the strand with the same polarity as the late mRNA, triplets corresponding to termination codons are present in two of the three reading frames. The one open reading frame connects in phase with the open reading frame of the neighboring HindII + III fragments K, F and G, which have been published previously and which together with Hind‐J span the total VP1 gene. Some features of the primary nucleotide sequence of this VP1 gene and the derived VP1 amino acid sequence are discussed.
A small molecule NRF2 activator BC-1901S ameliorates inflammation through DCAF1/NRF2 axis. NRF2 is a master regulator of cellular anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory responses, and strategies to augment NRF2-dependent responses may beneficial in many diseases. Basal NRF2 protein level is constrained by constitutive KEAP1-mediated degradation, but in the presence of electrophiles, NRF2 ubiquitination is inhibited. Impeded NRF2 degradation increases NRF2 protein, resulting in up-regulation of anti-oxidant gene transcription, and decreased inflammation. KEAP1-independent mechanisms regulating NRF2 stability have also been reported. Here we employed an HTS approach and identified a small molecule, BC-1901S, that stabilized NRF2 and increased its activity. BC-1901S activated NRF2 by inhibiting NRF2 ubiquitination in a KEAP1-independent manner. It further increased NRF2-dependent anti-oxidant gene transcription, and exhibited anti-inflammatory effects in vitro and in vivo. Further, we identified a new NRF2-interacting partner, DDB1 and CUL4 Associated Factor 1 (DCAF1), an E3 ligase that targeted NRF2 for proteasomal degradation. Mechanistically, BC-1901S directly bound to DCAF1 and disrupted NRF2/DCAF1 interaction, thus activating NRF2. These findings provide new insights in NRF2 biology and NRF2 based anti-inflammatory therapy.
Recent studies of the human chromosome 9p21 locus, which is associated with atherosclerosis in human populations. The chromosome 9p21 (Chr9p21) locus was discovered in 2007 by independent genome-wide association studies for coronary artery disease. Since then, the locus has been replicated numerous times and can be considered the most robust genetic marker of coronary artery disease today. Subsequent work has shown associations of Chr9p21 with a number of additional cardiovascular disease traits, such as carotid artery plaque, stroke, aneurysms, peripheral artery disease, heart failure, and cardiovascular mortality, suggesting a more general role in vascular pathology. Importantly, Chr9p21 lacks associations with common cardiovascular risk factors, such as lipids and hypertension, indicating that the locus exerts its effect through a completely novel mechanism. One of the challenges is that the core haplotype block at Chr9p21 resides in a region of the genome devoid of protein-coding genes. Recent progress has been made by functional studies focusing on differential expression of antisense noncoding RNA in the INK4 locus (ANRIL), which is transcribed from the Chr9p21 locus, as well as neighboring protein-coding genes at the INK4/ARF locus. The emerging concept suggests that ANRIL might constitute a regulator of epigenetic modification and thus modulate cardiovascular risk. Here, we review the current clinical, mechanistic, and diagnostic implications of the Chr9p21 locus in cardiovascular disease.
Research progress of DNA methylation of microRNA in tumors. To review the recent progresses about microRNA (miRNA) regulated by DNA methylation in tumorsat home and abroad. The literatures with "miRNA, regulated by DNA methylation and tumors" as key words were retrieved in PubMed and CNKI from 2004-04 to 2012-05.Total 401 English papers and 40 Chinese papers were obtained. The selection criteria: 1) the bionomics of miRNA; 2) the mechanism of DNA methylation and its relationship with tumors; 3) DNA methylation of miRNA in kinds of tumors. According to the critenia, 27 papers were involved. miRNA can act as oncogene or antioncogene through DNA methylation in tumors. Totally 20% of miRNA regulated by DNA metylation is with CpG Island inside in 5kb region, so DNA methylation of miRNA is closely related with CpG Island. miR-34, miR-124, miR-9 and miR-127 are frequently methylated in kinds of tumors, most of which play roles in tumor progression by targeting oncogenes or antioncogenes. miRNA regulated by DNA methylation widely exists in human tumors, and can be used in tumor early diagnosis, treatment, metastasis and prognosis.
DNA replication in mammalian cells after the action of factors of a physical, chemical or biological nature. V. The structural reorganization of replicating DNA in HeLa cells after incubation with 5-fluorodeoxyuridine. A study was made of sedimentation properties of the nucleoid (chromatin) of HeLa cells with radio- and thermostable mode of DNA synthesis induced by 5-fluorodeoxyuridine (FUdR). After the incubation of HeLa cells with FUdR (10(-6) M, 6 h or 24 h) the rate of nucleoid sedimentation was shown to rise by 40 and 25%, respectively. Maximum relaxation of the nucleoid was observed under 5 mg/ml ethidium bromide concentration in sucrose gradients. After the incubation with FUdR the nucleoid relaxes to a lesser extent, and after irradiation its response to ethidium bromide in various concentrations was similar to that of intact nucleoid, and by this property the "FUdR nucleoid" differs essentially from the irradiated "normal nucleoid". A model of chromatin structure of cells exposed to FUdR is proposed, based on the transformation of large domains in small ones, for the explanation of radioresistant DNA synthesis.
Crosstalk between ERK2 and RXR regulates nuclear import of transcription factor NGFI-B. Transcription factor NGFI-B initiates apoptosis when allowed to translocate to mitochondria. Retinoid-X receptor (RXR), another member of the nuclear receptor family, regulates NGFI-B signaling through heterodimerization and nuclear export. Growth factor EGF activates ERK2, which phosphorylates NGFI-B and determines if NGFI-B is allowed to translocate to mitochondria. In the present study, EGF treatment resulted in an increased nuclear import of NGFI-B. Likewise, active ERK2 resulted in a preferential nuclear localization of NGFI-B. When coexpressed with RXR the nuclear import and nuclear localization induced by active ERK2 were strongly reduced. In the presence of its ligand 9-cis-retinoic acid, RXR no longer inhibited ERK2-induced nuclear import. Thus, RXR serves a permissive role for ERK2-mediated nuclear accumulation of NGFI-B. This finding represents a novel crosstalk between ERK2 and RXR signaling pathways, and explains how two independent inhibitors of apoptosis (EGF and 9-cis-retinoic acid) may cooperate to regulate nuclear targeting of apoptosis inducer NGFI-B.
NCAM(CD56) and RUNX1(AML1) are up-regulated in human ischemic cardiomyopathy and a rat model of chronic cardiac ischemia. Chronic myocardial ischemia is the leading cause of impaired myocardial contractility and heart failure. To identify differentially expressed genes in human ischemic cardiomyopathy (ICM), we constructed a subtracted cDNA library using specimens of ICM compared to normal human heart. Among 100 randomly sequenced clones, seven sequences represented recently identified candidate genes for differential expression in cardiac hypertrophy. A further clone without a known hypertrophy-association coded for the adhesion molecule NCAM(CD56). RNase protection assay, immunohistochemistry, and Western blotting revealed strong overexpression of NCAM(CD56) in all hearts with ICM (n = 14) compared to normal hearts (n = 8), whereas in congestive cardiomyopathy (CCM) (n = 8), hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy (n = 2), myocarditis (n = 4), and sarcoidosis (n = 2), at most slight overexpression of NCAM(CD56) was observed. NCAM(CD56) overexpression abnormally involved the whole cell membrane and the cytoplasma of cardiomyocytes only inside and adjacent to ischemia-induced cardiac scars. Normal or hypertrophic fibers at a distance from ischemic scars were devoid of NCAM overexpression. Identical alterations were observed in an experimental rat ICM model, but not in normal nor in spontaneously hypertensive rat hearts. In search of NCAM(CD56)-related transcription factors we found RUNX1(AML1) up-regulation in ICM and detected RUNX1(AML1) binding within the NCAM(CD56) promoter by electromobility shift assay. We concluded that strong overexpression of NCAM(CD56) and RUNX1(AML1) is a constant and characteristic feature of cardiomyocytes within or adjacent to scars in ICM.
A microRNA expression signature characterizing the properties of tumor-initiating cells for breast cancer. microRNAs (miRNAs) are involved in controlling tumor behaviors either as oncogenes or tumor suppressors. To elucidate the role of miRNAs in the regulation of tumor initiation, we delineated the microRNA expression signature characterizing the properties of tumor-initiating cells for breast cancer. A group of miRNAs were differentially expressed in MDA-MB-231 and SUM1315 cells (with a high proportion of breast cancer tumor-initiating cells, CD44 +CD24 -/low subpopulation) compared to MCF-7 cells (only a small proportion of CD44 +CD24 -/low cells). Among the differentially expressed miRNAs common to MDA-MB-231 and SUM1315, approximately 46% of them are suggested to regulate the 'stemness' of stem cells or progenitor cells. Taken together, these findings suggested that miRNAs contribute to the maintenance of tumor-initiating properties and indicate the potential value of the miRNA expression signature in characterizing or predicting the features (including metastasis) of breast cancer.
Differential inducibility of p53-downstream genes in human neuroblastoma cell lines. Background: Mutations in the p53 gene are found in more than half of tumors. However, mutation in this gene is rare in neuroblastomas. We studied both the relationship between mutation of the p53 gene and the inducibility of the downstream genes p21, bax and mdm2, and the posttranslational modification of p53 in the human neuroblastoma cell lines GOTO, NMB, and SK-N-BE. Methods: The human neuroblastoma cell lines GOTO, NMB and SK-N-BE and the human osteogenic sarcoma cell line Saos-2 were cultured. DNA sequencing was done with an automated DNA sequencer. Expression of p53, phosphorylated p53, p21, Bax, and MDM2 proteins was determined by immunoblotting. Dual luciferase reporter plasmids with a p53 response element of p21, bax, and mdm2 were constructed and luciferase activity was measured. A mammalian p53 expression plasmid, pXZ53WT, was also constructed and transfected. Results: The homozygous or hemizygous missense mutations in the p53 gene of NMB and SK-N-BE were G to A at nucleotide 733 (G245S) and G to T at nucleotide 404 (C135F), respectively, while GOTO had no mutation at any exon. Doxorubicin was given to induce genotoxic stress, and endogenous p53 accumulation was observed in all cell lines tested. Increases in p21, Bax, and MDM2, in which transcription is directly regulated by p53, did not occur in NMB and SK-N-BE. In GOTO, p21 and MDM2, but not Bax, increased. The transcriptional activities of these genes paralleled the increases in protein levels, except for MDM2 in GOTO. These results indicate that mutant p53 does not contribute to up-regulation of p21, bax, or mdm2. In addition, even in wild-type p53-possessing cells (GOTO) the p53-dependent apoptotic pathway was obstructed. Experiments with a p53 expression plasmid revealed that abnormalities occurred in multiple p53-dependent pathways of neuroblastoma cells with wild-type or mutated p53. p53 phosphorylation ability was noted in cells with mutant p53, indicating that the function of genes regulating upstream of the p53 pathway is retained. Conclusions: Our findings suggest that multiple transcription factors (including p53) that are essential for the full expression of the p53-downstream genes related to cell cycle regulation and induction of apoptosis are inactivated during tumorigenesis in neuroblastoma cells.
The modulatory effects of bHLH transcription factors with the Wnt/β-catenin pathway on differentiation of neural progenitor cells derived from neonatal mouse anterior subventricular zone. The subventricular zone (SVZ) located adjacent to the lateral ventricles is the major site where neural progenitor cells (NPCs) are concentrated in the adult brain. NPCs in the anterior subventricular zone (SVZa) generate neuronal precursors and migrate along a highly localized pathway-the rostral migratory stream (RMS) to the olfactory bulb (OB), where they differentiate into interneurons. To investigate the modulatory effects of basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factors on differentiation from SVZa NPCs, we firstly examined the distribution of bHLH family members (Mash1, Id2, and Hes1) in cultured mouse SVZa NPCs and evaluated their regulatory effects on differentiation by transfection with Mash1, Id2, or Hes1 eukaryotic expression plasmid. Furthermore, we assessed the effects of bHLH transcription factors on the expression of downstream molecules of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway, β-catenin and (Glycogen synthase kinase-3β). Our results demonstrated that Mash1, Id2, Hes1 were all widely expressed in in vitro progenies from mouse SVZa NPCs. Analyses of SVZa NPCs transfected with eukaryotic expression plasmids showed that Mash1 promoted neuronal differentiation from SVZa NPCs, while Id2 and Hes1 repressed neuronal differentiation. In addition, we found that Id2 and Hes1 simulated expression of β-catenin and GSK-3β, while Mash1 inhibited their expression. Our results suggest that the classic bHLH transcription factors, Mash1, Id2 and Hes1, play important roles in the regulation of differentiation from SVZa NPCs. This modulation is possibly mediated by a coordination of bHLH and Wnt/β-catenin signaling
Identification of prognostic biomarkers of hepatocellular carcinoma via long noncoding RNA expression and copy number alterations. Aim: This study aimed to identify long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) with potential to be prognostic biomarkers of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) by analyzing copy number alterations (CNAs). Methods: RNA Sequencing data of 369 HCC patients was downloaded from The Cancer Genome Atlas database and analyzed with a series of systematic bioinformatics methods. Results: LncRNA-CNA association analysis revealed that many lncRNAs were located in sites frequently amplified or deleted. Three upregulated lncRNAs (LINC00689, SNHG20 and MAFG-AS1) with copy amplification and one downregulated lncRNA TMEM220-AS1 with copy deletion were associated with poor prognosis of HCC. Conclusion: This study reveals that differentially expressed lncRNAs correlate with CNAs in HCC. Moreover, the differentially expressed lncRNAs and their copy amplification/deletions could be promising prognostic biomarkers of HCC.
Daily variation and light responsiveness of mammalian clock gene, Clock and BMAL1, transcripts in the pineal body and different areas of brain in rats. Expression patterns of mammalian clock genes, Clock and BMAL1, were examined by in situ hybridization in the pineal body, olfactory bulb, hippocampus and cerebellum in rats under constant darkness. In the pineal, the level of Clock transcript was significantly higher at ZT18 (subjective night) than at ZT6 (subjective day), while the level of BMAL1 transcript was significantly higher at ZT6 than at ZT18. A 30 min light pulse did not affect the transcript levels of Clock nor of BMAL1. The Clock expression in the cerebellum was significantly increased at ZT6 than at ZT18, while no difference was detected in the olfactory bulb and hippocampus at these two phases. The BMAL1 expressions in these areas were similar to the case in the pineal. These findings indicate that the mammalian clock gene, Clock and BMAL1, are expressed differently in the different areas of the brain and the pineal.
The BMP ligand Gdf6 prevents differentiation of coronal suture mesenchyme in early cranial development. Growth Differentiation Factor-6 (Gdf6) is a member of the Bone Morphogenetic Protein (BMP) family of secreted signaling molecules. Previous studies have shown that Gdf6 plays a role in formation of a diverse subset of skeletal joints. In mice, loss of Gdf6 results in fusion of the coronal suture, the intramembranous joint that separates the frontal and parietal bones. Although the role of GDFs in the development of cartilaginous limb joints has been studied, limb joints are developmentally quite distinct from cranial sutures and how Gdf6 controls suture formation has remained unclear. In this study we show that coronal suture fusion in the Gdf6-/- mouse is due to accelerated differentiation of suture mesenchyme, prior to the onset of calvarial ossification. Gdf6 is expressed in the mouse frontal bone primordia from embryonic day (E) 10.5 through 12.5. In the Gdf6-/- embryo, the coronal suture fuses prematurely and concurrently with the initiation of osteogenesis in the cranial bones. Alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity and Runx2 expression assays both showed that the suture width is reduced in Gdf6+/- embryos and is completely absent in Gdf6-/- embryos by E12.5. ALP activity is also increased in the suture mesenchyme of Gdf6+/- embryos compared to wild-type. This suggests Gdf6 delays differentiation of the mesenchyme occupying the suture, prior to the onset of ossification. Therefore, although BMPs are known to promote bone formation, Gdf6 plays an inhibitory role to prevent the osteogenic differentiation of the coronal suture mesenchyme.
CHX10 targets a subset of photoreceptor genes. The homeobox gene CHX10 is required for retinal progenitor cell proliferation early in retinogenesis and subsequently for bipolar neuron differentiation. To clarify the molecular mechanisms employed by CHX10 we sought to identify its target genes. In a yeast one-hybrid assay Chx10 interacted with the Ret1 site of the photoreceptor-specific gene Rhodopsin. Gel shift assays using in vitro translated protein confirmed that CHX10 binds to Ret1, but not to the similar Rhodopsin sites Ret4 and BAT-1. Using retinal nuclear lysates, we observed interactions between Chx10 and additional photoreceptor-specific elements including the PCE-1 (Rod arrestin/S-antigen) and the Cone opsin locus control region (Red/green cone opsin). However, chromatin immunoprecipitation assays revealed that in vivo, Chx10 bound sites upstream of the Rod arrestin and Interphotoreceptor retinoid-binding protein genes but not Rhodopsin or Cone opsin. Thus, in a chromatin context, Chx10 associates with a specific subset of elements that it binds with comparable apparent affinity in vitro. Our data suggest that CHX10 may target these motifs to inhibit rod photoreceptor gene expression in bipolar cells.
Thrombopoietin promotes NHEJ DNA repair in hematopoietic stem cells through specific activation of Erk and NF-kB pathways and their target, IEX-1. Loss of hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) function and increased risk of developing hematopoietic malignancies are severe and concerning complications of anticancer radiotherapy and chemotherapy. We have previously shown that thrombopoietin (TPO), a critical HSC regulator, ensures HSC chromosomal integrity and function in response to γ-irradiation by regulating their DNA-damage response. TPO directly affects the double-strand break (DSB) repair machinery through increased DNA-protein kinase (DNA-PK) phosphorylation and nonhomologous end-joining (NHEJ) repair efficiency and fidelity. This effect is not shared by other HSC growth factors, suggesting that TPO triggers a specific signal in HSCs facilitating DNA-PK activation upon DNA damage. The discovery of these unique signaling pathways will provide a means of enhancing TPO-desirable effects on HSCs and improving the safety of anticancer DNA agents.We show here that TPO specifically triggers Erk and nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) pathways in mouse hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs). Both of these pathways are required for a TPO-mediated increase in DSB repair. They cooperate to induce and activate the early stress-response gene, Iex-1 (ier3), upon DNA damage. Iex-1 forms a complex with pERK and the catalytic subunit of DNA-PK, which is necessary and sufficient to promote TPO-increased DNA-PK activation and NHEJ DSB repair in both mouse and human HSPCs.
Circular RNA TTBK2 regulates cell proliferation, invasion and ferroptosis via miR-761/ITGB8 axis in glioma. OBJECTIVE: Glioma is a primary intracranial tumor with an unfavorable prognosis. Evolving evidence indicates that circular RNA Tau tubulin kinase 2 (circ-TTBK2) is a cancer- associated gene. Therefore, this study was to explore the potential role of circ-TTBK2. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Levels of circ- TTBK2, microRNA (miR)-761, and integrin subunit beta 8 (ITGB8) were determined by adopting quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) or Western blot. 3-(4,5-Dimethylthiazol- 2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay was performed to detect cell viability, and the invaded cells were distinguished utilizing transwell assay. Iron and lipid reactive oxygen species (ROS) assays were implemented to examine the iron (total iron and ferrous iron) and lipid-based ROS in glioma cells, respectively. Besides, dual- luciferase reporter assay was administrated to illustrate the interaction between miR-761 and circ- TTBK2 or ITGB8. The role of circ-TTBK2 was identified via xenograft tumor model. RESULTS: Levels of circ-TTBK2 and ITGB8 were upregulated, whereas miR-761 level was low-expressed in glioma tissues and cells. Circ- TTBK2 was a sponge of miR-761 to modulate ITGB8. Additionally, circ-TTBK2 knockdown or miR-761 increase could retard cell proliferation, invasion, and promote ferroptosis in glioma cells. Interestingly, miR-761 inhibitor could abolish the repressive impact of circ-TTBK2 silencing on cell growth in vitro. Also, the influence of miR-761 mimic on cell phenotypes was regained after ITGB8 upregulation. Meanwhile, circ-TTBK2 deficiency caused the decrease of tumor growth. CONCLUSIONS: Circ-TTBK2 regulated cell proliferation, invasion and ferroptosis via targeting ITGB8 by sponging miR-761 in glioma, providing a promising biomarker for the clinical therapy of human glioma.
Mrna overexpression of prolyl hydroxylase phd3 is inversely related to nuclear grade in renal cell carcinoma. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the relative mRNA expression levels of genes involved in the hypoxia inducible factor (HIF) signalling pathway in renal cell carcinoma (RCC) and to analyse their associations with clinicopathological parameters and survival outcomes. Reverse transcription-quantitative PCR was used to quantify the mRNA expression levels of HIF-1α, HIF-2α, prolyl hydroxylase (PHD)1, PHD2 and PHD3 in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tumour tissue samples from 41 patients with RCC, including 33 cases of clear cell RCC (ccRCC). FFPE samples of corresponding adjacent normal kidney tissues were used as a comparison. mRNA expression levels were analysed in regard to clinical parameters, histological type, stage, nuclear grade, cancer specific survival and overall survival. Compared with adjacent normal kidney tissue, HIF-1α levels were lower in 16/33 ccRCC samples (48.48%), while HIF-2α, PHD1 and PHD2 levels did not exhibit a specific expression pattern. By contrast, the PHD3 mRNA level was higher in 29/33 (87.87%) of the tumour samples. HIF-1α was positively associated with HIF-2α, PHD1 and PHD2. HIF-2α levels were associated with PHD1, PHD2 and PHD3, while PHD3 was strongly associated with PHD2. PHD3 mRNA levels were inversely associated with nuclear grade (P=0.015). However, in univariate analysis, PHD3 was not associated with cancer-specific or overall survival rates. The present findings suggest an important involvement of PHD3 in ccRCC, since PHD3 mRNA expression was inversely associated with nuclear grade. However, PHD3 mRNA levels did not have an independent prognostic value. Further studies are required to investigate whether PHD3 could be used as either a therapeutic target or prognostic marker.
Comprehensive Identification of RNA-Binding Domains in Human Cells. Mammalian cells harbor more than a thousand RNA-binding proteins (RBPs), with half of these employing unknown modes of RNA binding. We developed RBDmap to determine the RNA-binding sites of native RBPs on a proteome-wide scale. We identified 1,174 binding sites within 529 HeLa cell RBPs, discovering numerous RNA-binding domains (RBDs). Catalytic centers or protein-protein interaction domains are in close relationship with RNA-binding sites, invoking possible effector roles of RNA in the control of protein function. Nearly half of the RNA-binding sites map to intrinsically disordered regions, uncovering unstructured domains as prevalent partners in protein-RNA interactions. RNA-binding sites represent hot spots for defined posttranslational modifications such as lysine acetylation and tyrosine phosphorylation, suggesting metabolic and signal-dependent regulation of RBP function. RBDs display a high degree of evolutionary conservation and incidence of Mendelian mutations, suggestive of important functional roles. RBDmap thus yields profound insights into native protein-RNA interactions in living cells.
Association between ERCC5 gene polymorphisms and gastric cancer risk. We investigate the role of ERCC5 gene polymorphisms (rs17655 and rs751402) in the development of gastric cancer in a Chinese population. A total of 142 gastric cancer patients whose diagnoses were confirmed by pathology, and 274 control subjects were recruited from Tangshan Gongren Hospital between March 2013 and March 2015. Genotyping of ERCC5 rs17655 and rs751402 polymorphisms was performed by polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism. Compared with the control subjects, we found that gastric cancer patients were more likely to be older, smoke tobacco, drink alcohol, and suffer from Helicobacter pylori infection. Using a chi-square test, a significant difference was observed in the distribution ofERCC5 rs751402 genotypes between patient and control groups (chi-square = 7.79, P = 0.02). In addition, unconditional multiple logistic regression analysis revealed that the AA genotype of rs751402 significantly increased gastric cancer risk compared to the GG genotype [odds ratio (OR) = 2.61, 95%CI = 1.23-5.49; P = 0.005]. Moreover, we found that the AA genotype correlated with elevated risk of gastric cancer when compared to the GG+AG genotype under a recessive model (OR = 2.21, 95%CI = 1.11-4.39; P = 0.01). In conclusion, we suggest that the ERCC5 rs751402 polymorphism is associated with development of gastric cancer.
Targeted DNA methylation in vivo using an engineered dCas9-MQ1 fusion protein. Comprehensive studies have shown that DNA methylation plays vital roles in both loss of pluripotency and governance of the transcriptome during embryogenesis and subsequent developmental processes. Aberrant DNA methylation patterns have been widely observed in tumorigenesis, ageing and neurodegenerative diseases, highlighting the importance of a systematic understanding of DNA methylation and the dynamic changes of methylomes during disease onset and progression. Here we describe a facile and convenient approach for efficient targeted DNA methylation by fusing inactive Cas9 (dCas9) with an engineered prokaryotic DNA methyltransferase MQ1. Our study presents a rapid and efficient strategy to achieve locus-specific cytosine modifications in the genome without obvious impact on global methylation in 24 h. Finally, we demonstrate our tool can induce targeted CpG methylation in mice by zygote microinjection, thereby demonstrating its potential utility in early development.
Adipose stromal cells differentiation toward smooth muscle cell phenotype diminishes their vasculogenic activity due to induction of activin A secretion. Adipose stromal cells (ASCs) support endothelial cell (EC) vasculogenesis through paracrine and cell-contact communications. In addition, ASCs differentiate towards the smooth muscle cell (SMC) phenotype under different stimuli, which prompted their use as a source of mural cells in fabricating small calibre vessels. How ASCs' SMC-lineage commitment affects their subsequent communication with ECs is unknown. The vasculogenic characteristics of human ASCs in progenitor stage and after differentiation towards SMC phenotype were analysed in the present study. Exposure to transforming growth factor β1 (TGFβ1) or activin A has induced expression of SMC markers in ASCs. Analysis performed after treatment withdrawal revealed that secretome of pre-differentiated ASCs had a reduced potency to support EC survival and these ASCs had diminished ability to support EC vasculogenesis in vitro. Vascularization of subcutaneous implants carrying a mixture of ECs and ASCs was 50% lower when, instead of control, pre-differentiated ASCs were used. Pre-differentiated ASCs had an inferior mitogenic response to EC-produced factors. Differentiation of ASCs was accompanied by upregulation of vascular endothelial growth factor and a decrease in hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) production; however, addition of HGF to the co-culture incubation media did not improve vasculogenesis. In parallel, ASC treatment with TGFβ1 induced secretion of activin A. Augmenting co-culture incubation media with anti-activin A IgG restored the ability of pre-differentiated ASCs to support vasculogenesis to the same degree as control ASCs. The present study suggests that TGFβ1 or activin A-induced ASC commitment to SMC phenotype negatively affects the ability of ASCs to support EC vasculogenesis in applications based on EC and ASC co-injection into target tissues.
Study to determine the presence of progenitor cells in the degenerated human cartilage endplates. Introduction Cartilage endplate (CEP) degeneration is usually accompanied by loss of cellularity, and this loss may be a crucial key factor in initiation and development of degenerative disc disease. The study of cell types in degenerated CEP could help in understanding CEP etiopathogenesis, and may help in devising new treatments, especially if the presence of progenitor cells could be demonstrated. The aim of this study was to determine if progenitor cells existed in degenerated human CEP. Materials and methods Cells isolated from CEP were cultured in a three-dimensional agarose suspension to screen for proliferative cell clusters. Cell clusters were then expanded in vitro and the populations were analyzed for colony forming unit, immunophenotype, multilineage induction, and expression of stem cell-related genes. Results The presence of progenitor cells in degenerated human CEP is indicated by the results of CFU, immunophenotype, multilineage induction, and expression of stem cell-related genes. Conclusions We believe that this is the first study which has conclusively shown the presence of progenitor cells in degenerated CEP. The finding of this study may influence the clinical management of degenerative disc disorder.
Genetic alterations in gastric cancer cell lines and their original tissues. To investigate the genetic changes that occur during establishment of gastric cancer cell lines, 4 gastric cancer cell lines and their original tumor tissues were examined for microsatellite instability (MSI), loss of heterozygosity (LOH), and p53 mutation. MSI status did not change during the establishment, though the cell lines gained frameshift mutation in some of the genes with polytract coding sequences. There was no difference in p53 mutation between the cell lines and the original tumors. The frequency of LOH was similar between the cell lines and each original tumor, in the range 30.8% to 85.7%. The difference in the LOH results between the cell lines and the original tumors was not greater than the difference between the different areas of the original tumors. The above results suggested that most of the genetic alterations, such as MSI, LOH, and p53 gene mutation, were sustained during the establishment of gastric cancer cell lines. Minor genetic differences between original tumor tissues and cancer cell lines could be explained as a tumor heterogeneity because separate areas of the original tumor tissues manifest similar variations.
Comparative mapping of the constitutional and tumor-associated 11;22 translocations. The reciprocal t(11;22)(q23;q11) is the most common non-Robertsonian constitutional translocation in humans. The tumor-associated 11;22 rearrangement of Ewing sarcoma (ES) and peripheral neuroepithelioma (NE) is cytologically very similar to the 11;22 constitutional rearrangement. Using immunoglobulin light-chain constant region, ETS1 probes, and the technique of in situ hybridization, we previously were able to show that the constitutional and ES/NE breakpoints are different. As a first step toward isolating these translocation junctions and to further distinguish between them, we have made somatic cell hybrids. Cells from a constitutional 46,XX,inv(9),t(11;22) carrier and from an ES cell line with a t(11;22) were separately fused to a hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase-deficient Chinese hamster cell line (RJK88). Resulting clones were screened with G-banding and Southern hybridization. Hybrid clones derived from the constitutional t(11;22) were established which contained the der(22) and both the der(22) and the der(11). Hybrid clones derived from the ES cell line containing the der(11) were isolated. Using the technique of Southern hybridization we have sublocalized the loci; ApoA1/C3, CD3D, ETS1, PBGD, THY1, D11S29, D11S34, and D11S147 to the region between the two breakpoints on chromosome 11 and V(λI), V(λVI), V(λVII), and D22S10 to the region between the breakpoints on chromosome 22. Using anonymous DNA probes, we found that D22S9 and D22S24 map proximal to the constitutional breakpoint and that D22S15 and D22S32 map distal to the ES breakpoint on chromosome 22.
Genetic control of NKT cell numbers maps to major diabetes and lupus loci. Natural killer T cells are an immunoregulatory population of lymphocytes that plays a critical role in controlling the adaptive immune system and contributes to the regulation of autoimmune responses. We have previously reported deficiencies in the numbers and function of NKT cells in the nonobese diabetic (NOD) mouse strain, a well-validated model of type 1 diabetes and systemic lupus erythematosus. In this study, we report the results of a genetic linkage analysis of the genes controlling NKT cell numbers in a first backcross (BC1) from C57BL/6 to NOD.Nkrp1b mice. The numbers of thymic NKT cells of 320 BC1 mice were determined by fluorescence-activated cell analysis using anti-TCR Ab and CD1/α-galactosylceramide tetramer. Tail DNA of 138 female BC1 mice was analyzed for PCR product length polymorphisms at 181 simple sequence repeats, providing greater than 90% coverage of the autosomal genome with an average marker separation of 8 cM. Two loci exhibiting significant linkage to NKT cell numbers were identified; the most significant (Nkt1) was on distal chromosome 1, in the same region as the NOD mouse lupus susceptibility gene Babs2/Bana3. The second most significant locus (Nkt2) mapped to the same region as Idd13, a NOD-derived diabetes susceptibility gene on chromosome 2.
FADD/MORT1, a signal transducer that can promote cell death or cell growth. FADD/MORT1 is a cytosolic adaptor protein which is critical for signalling from CD95 (Fas/APO-1) and certain other members of the tumour necrosis factor receptor (TNF-R) family (called 'death receptors'). Two protein interaction domains have been identified in FADD/MORT1. The C-terminal 'death domain' is needed for recruitment of FADD/MORT1 to ligated 'death receptors' and the N-terminal 'death effector domain' mediates oligomerisation and activation of caspase-8 zymogens. Caspase-8 activates other cysteine proteases by cleavage and this starts a proteolytic cascade which constitutes the 'point of no return' in apoptosis signalling. Experiments in mice lacking FADD/MORT1 function proved that this adaptor is required for CD95- and TNF-RI-transduced cell death but is dispensable for other pathways to apoptosis. Surprisingly, FADD/MORT1 is also essential for mitogen-induced proliferation of T-lymphocytes. Therapeutic activation of FADD/MORT1 function may be used to kill unwanted cells in cancer or autoimmunity and its suppression may help prevent cell death in certain degenerative disorders.
Activation of PKA/CREB Signaling is Involved in BMP9-Induced Osteogenic Differentiation of Mesenchymal Stem Cells. Background/Aims: BMP9 is highly capable of promoting osteogenic differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) although the molecular mechanism involved is largely unknown. Here, we explored the detail role of PKA/CREB signaling in BMP9-induced osteogenic differentiation. Methods: Activation status of PKA/CREB signaling is assessed by nonradioactive assay and Western blot. Using PKA inhibitors and a dominant negative protein of CREB (A-CREB), we investigated the effect of PKA/CREB signaling on BMP9-induced osteogenic differentiation. Results: We found that BMP9 promotes PKA activity and enhances CREB phosphorylation in MSCs. BMP9 is shown to down-regulate protein kinase A inhibitor γ (PKIγ) expression. We demonstrated that PKA inhibitors suppress BMP9-induced early osteogenic marker alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity in MSCs as well as late osteogenic markers osteopontin (OPN), osteocalcin (OCN) and matrix mineralization. We found that PKA inhibitor reduces BMP9-induced Runx2 activation and p38 phosphorylation in MSCs. Lastly, interference of CREB function by A-CREB decreased BMP9-induced osteogenic differentiation as well. Conclusion: Our results revealed that BMP9 may activate PKA/CREB signaling in MSCs through suppression of PKIγ expression. It is noteworthy that inhibition of PKA/CREB signaling may impair BMP9-induced osteogenic differentiation of MSCs, implying that activation of PKA/CREB signaling is required for BMP9 osteoinductive activity.
Modification of histocompatibility antigen expression in cells expressing activated oncogenes: Implications for tumour development. The down-regulation of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) antigen expression which occurs in tumours may be an important element in tumour progression - the increasing malignancy of tumours - which is so much a feature of cancer - if it allowed the avoidance of T-cell immunity. Obviously, this downregulation could be due to a wide variety of mechanisms. An interesting possibility is that some oncogenes may directly influence MHC gene expression, perhaps at several different levels. The way in which oncogenes work-through signal transduction and transcription controls - suggests how this could happen. Three examples of oncogenes for which there is evidence that their expression modulates MHC gene expression and adenovirus E1A, myc and ras.
The IL-1 family of cytokines. Do they have a role in scleroderma fibrosis?. Systemic sclerosis is a profibrotic autoimmune disease mediated by the dysregulation in collagen synthesis, leading to the increased deposition of collagens, primarily type I and III, and the deposition of other extracellular matrix proteins in the skin and internal organs, in a mechanism that is thought to be an over active wound healing process. These patients experience significant morbidity and the mortality rate in this disease is high. Indeed, scleroderma is the most deadly of diseases in the autoimmune spectrum. Recent evidence has placed the assembly and chronic activation of the inflammasome as a central driver of fibrosis. Once assembled, the inflammasome is a large protein complex that regulates the release of IL-1, IL-18, and IL-33, which are thought to play a role in the fibrotic response. IL-36 also belongs to the IL-1 family of cytokines and is a new comer to this field of research. Recent analyses of the IL-1 family of cytokines have demonstrated that many of them play a role in skin inflammation and fibrosis and their corresponding antagonists (IL-1RA and IL-36RA) can abrogate this pathology. Understanding how these cytokines are regulated and how they contribute to fibrosis will be important to understanding this pathology and may shed light in new areas for therapeutic development.
The histone methyltransferase Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome candidate 1-like 1 (WHSC1L1) is involved in human carcinogenesis. Histone lysine methylation plays a fundamental role in chromatin organization. Although a set of histone methyltransferases have been identified and biochemically characterized, the pathological roles of their dysfunction in human cancers are still not well understood. In this study, we demonstrate important roles of WHSC1L1 in human carcinogenesis. Expression levels of WHSC1L1 transcript were significantly elevated in various human cancers including bladder carcinoma. Immunohistochemical analysis of bladder, lung, and liver cancers confirmed overexpression of WHSC1L1. WHSC1L1-specific small interfering RNAs significantly knocked down its expression and resulted in suppression of proliferation of bladder and lung cancer cell lines. WHSC1L1 knockdown induced cell cycle arrest at the G2/M phase followed by multinucleation of cancer cells. Expression profile analysis using Affymetrix GeneChip® showed that WHSC1L1 affected the expression of a number of genes including CCNG1 and NEK7, which are known to play crucial roles in the cell cycle progression at mitosis. As WHSC1L1 expression is significantly low in various normal tissues including vital organs, WHSC1L1 could be a good candidate molecule for development of novel treatment for various types of cancer.
Human papillomavirus (HPV)-18 E6 oncoprotein interferes with the epithelial cell polarity Par3 protein. High-risk human papillomavirus (HPV) infection is the principal risk factor for the development of cervical cancer. The HPV E6 oncoprotein has the ability to target and interfere with several PSD-95/DLG/ZO-1 (PDZ) domain-containing proteins that are involved in the control of cell polarity. This function can be significant for E6 oncogenic activity because a deficiency in cell polarisation is a marker of tumour progression. The establishment and control of polarity in epithelial cells depend on the correct asymmetrical distribution of proteins and lipids at the cell borders and on specialised cell junctions. In this report, we have investigated the effects of HPV E6 protein on the polarity machinery, with a focus on the PDZ partitioning defective 3 (Par3) protein, which is a key component of tight junctions (TJ) and the polarity network. We demonstrate that E6 is able to bind and induce the mislocalisation of Par3 protein in a PDZ-dependent manner without significant reduction in Par3 protein levels. In addition, the high-risk HPV-18 E6 protein promotes a delay in TJ formation when analysed by calcium switch assays. Taken together, the data presented in this study contribute to our understanding of the molecular mechanism by which HPVs induce the loss of cell polarity, with potential implications for the development and progression of HPV-associated tumours.
The polymorphism of CLOCK gene rs4864548 A&gt;G is associated with susceptibility of Alzheimer’s disease in Chinese population. The aim of this study was to investigate the correlation between polymorphism of circadian locomotor output cycle kaput (CLOCK) gene rs4864548 A/G and susceptibility of Alzheimer’s disease (AD). A total of 296 unrelated AD patients and 423 control subjects were enrolled in the case-control study. Genotypes of apolipoprotein E (APOE) and CLOCK gene rs4864548 A/G were determined by a Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) restriction fragment length polymorphism detection method. Our results showed that in the whole sample or APOE ε 4 non-carriers, prevalence of A carriers in CLOCK gene rs4864548 A/G in AD patients was remarkably higher than that in control subjects (in the whole sample: χ2 = 47.614, p < 0.0001; in APOE ε 4 non-carriers: χ2 = 22.493, p < 0.0001). However, among APOE ε 4 carriers, the difference in the prevalence of A carriers in CLOCK gene rs4864548 A/G between AD patients and controls was no statistically significant (χ2 = 0.669, p = 0.379). These findings demonstrate that A carriers in CLOCK gene rs 4864548 A/G were closely related to a high susceptibility of AD among APOE ε 4 non-carriers while the functional polymorphism of CLOCK gene rs4864548 A/G was not associated with the susceptibility of AD among APOE ε 4 carriers.
'DDX58 (RIG-I)-related disease is associated with tissue-specific interferon pathway activation. Background Singleton-Merten syndrome (SGMRT) is a rare immunogenetic disorder that variably features juvenile open-angle glaucoma (JOAG), psoriasiform skin rash, aortic calcifications and skeletal and dental dysplasia. Few families have been described and the genotypic and phenotypic spectrum is poorly defined, with variants in DDX58 (DExD/H-box helicase 58) being one of two identified causes, classified as SGMRT2. Methods Families underwent deep systemic phenotyping and exome sequencing. Functional characterisation with in vitro luciferase assays and in vivo interferon signature using bulk and single cell RNA sequencing was performed. Results We have identified a novel DDX58 variant c.1529A>T p.(Glu510Val) that segregates with disease in two families with SGMRT2. Patients in these families have widely variable phenotypic features and different ethnic background, with some being severely affected by systemic features and others solely with glaucoma. JOAG was present in all individuals affected with the syndrome. Furthermore, detailed evaluation of skin rash in one patient revealed sparse inflammatory infiltrates in a unique distribution. Functional analysis showed that the DDX58 variant is a dominant gain-of-function activator of interferon pathways in the absence of exogenous RNA ligands. Single cell RNA sequencing of patient lesional skin revealed a cellular activation of interferon-stimulated gene expression in keratinocytes and fibroblasts but not in neighbouring healthy skin. Conclusions These results expand the genotypic spectrum of DDX58-associated disease, provide the first detailed description of ocular and dermatological phenotypes, expand our understanding of the molecular pathogenesis of this condition and provide a platform for testing response to therapy
2′-Hydroxyflavanone inhibits prostate tumor growth through inactivation of AKT/STAT3 signaling and induction of cell apoptosis. Although there have been advances in therapeutic regimes for metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC), these recent developments have not led to improved cure rates. Thus, more novel agents to prolong patient survival are desired. 2′-Hydroxyflavanone (2HF), a nontoxic natural flavonoid, has been shown to exhibit pleiotropic anticancer effects in many cancer types, including prostate cancer (PCa). However, the therapeutic effects of 2HF on tumor growth and its potential mechanisms in CRPC have not been completely elucidated. In the present study, utilizing three different metastatic and androgen-independent PCa cell models (PC-3, DU145 and C4-2), we found that 2HF treatment not only resulted in inhibition of cell proliferation and colony formation in vitro, but also delayed subcutaneous tumor growth in vivo. Mechanistically, besides its known inhibitory effects on aldo-keto reductase activity and de novo a ndrogen synthesis, 2 HF also markedly suppressed AKT phosphorylation, signal transducer and activator of transcription-3 (STAT3) phosphorylation and transactivation subsequently regulating the expression of members of the BCL-2 family (i.e., Mcl-1, Bcl-2 and Bax) and modulating caspase-mediated cell apoptosis. Overall, this study revealed a novel mechanism for 2HF targeting metastatic CRPC, in which inactivation of AKT/STAT3 signaling led to cell apoptosis and growth inhibition.
Cellular localisation and co-expression of somatostatin receptor messenger RNAs in the human brain. Genes for five high affinity somatostatin receptors, named sst1-5, have been cloned recently. In this study we describe the tissue distribution and cellular localisation of mRNA encoding sst1, sst3 and sst4 receptors in the human cerebellum, frontal cortex (Brodmann's area 11) and hippocampus. RT-PCR and in situ hybridisation studies indicated a distinct, but partially overlapping pattern of expression of the receptor mRNAs. In situ hybridisation studies using co-expression techniques with probes for sst1, sst3 and sst4 receptor mRNA on paraffin sections revealed the presence of neurones expressing more than one somatostatin receptor mRNA type in both the hippocampus and pyramidal cells of layer V of the frontal cortex.
MHC class II deficiency: A disease of gene regulation. Primary human immunodeficiencies are a heterogenous group of inborn errors of the immune system. Among them, MHC class II deficiency (MHC-II deficiency) is caused by the absence of MHC-II expression on the cell surface. The disease was named "major histocompatibility complex class II deficiency" but it is also frequently referred to as the "bare lymphocyte syndrome" (BLS). The disease is due to defects in transacting regulatory factors required for expression of MHC-II genes. The affected genes are now known to encode at least 4 distinct regulatory factors controlling transcription of MHC-II genes. These transacting factors, called CIITA, RFXANK, RFX5, and RFXAP, are essential and specific for the MHC class II gene expression. Thus, while all patients have very similar clinical findings, the genetic defects are heterogenous, with mutations in 1 of these 4 transacting factors. Here, we review the clinical and molecular features that characterize MHC-II deficiency and discuss therapy options.
Cloning and characterization of two distinct human extracellular signal- regulated kinase activator kinases, MEK1 and MEK2. Mitogen-induced signal transduction is mediated by a cascade of protein phosphorylation and dephosphorylation. One of the immediate responses of mitogen stimulation is the activation of a family of protein kinases known as mitogen-activated protein kinase or extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK). MEK (MAP kinase or ERK kinase) is the immediate upstream activator kinase of ERK. Two cDNAs, MEK1 and MEK2, were cloned and sequenced. MEK1 and MEK2 encode 393 and 400 amino acid residues, respectively. The human MEK1 shares 99% amino acid sequence identity with the murine MEK1 and 80% with human MEK2. Both MEK1 and MEK2 were expressed in Escherichia coli and shown to be able to activate recombinant human ERK1 in vitro. The purified MEK2 protein stimulated threonine and tyrosine phosphorylation on ERK1 and concomitantly activated ERK1 kinase activity more than 100-fold. The recombinant MEK2 showed lower activity as an ERK activator as compared with MEK purified from tissue. However, the recombinant MEK2 can be activated by serum-stimulated cell extract in vitro. MEKs, in a manner similar to ERKs, are likely to consist of a family of related proteins playing critical roles in signal transduction.
CRY Drives Cyclic CK2-Mediated BMAL1 Phosphorylation to Control the Mammalian Circadian Clock. Intracellular circadian clocks, composed of clock genes that act in transcription-translation feedback loops, drive global rhythmic expression of the mammalian transcriptome and allow an organism to anticipate to the momentum of the day. Using a novel clock-perturbing peptide, we established a pivotal role for casein kinase (CK)-2-mediated circadian BMAL1-Ser90 phosphorylation (BMAL1-P) in regulating central and peripheral core clocks. Subsequent analysis of the underlying mechanism showed a novel role of CRY as a repressor for protein kinase. Co-immunoprecipitation experiments and real-time monitoring of protein–protein interactions revealed that CRY-mediated periodic binding of CK2β to BMAL1 inhibits BMAL1-Ser90 phosphorylation by CK2α. The FAD binding domain of CRY1, two C-terminal BMAL1 domains, and particularly BMAL1-Lys537 acetylation/deacetylation by CLOCK/SIRT1, were shown to be critical for CRY-mediated BMAL1–CK2β binding. Reciprocally, BMAL1-Ser90 phosphorylation is prerequisite for BMAL1-Lys537 acetylation. We propose a dual negative-feedback model in which a CRY-dependent CK2-driven posttranslational BMAL1–P-BMAL1 loop is an integral part of the core clock oscillator.
GANT61 plays antitumor effects by inducing oxidative stress through the miRNA-1286/RAB31 axis in osteosarcoma. Osteosarcoma (OS) is a rare malignancy of bone associated with poor clinical outcomes. The antitumor effects of GANT61 on OS is unclear. To investigate antitumor effects and mechanism of GANT61 in OS cells and xenograft model. Effects of GANT61 on cell viability, clone formation, cell cycle, apoptosis, migration, and invasion ability of OS cells were assessed. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels measured by dichlorofluorescein fluorescence were used to evaluate oxidative stress. The Xenograft model was constructed to investigate the antitumor effects of GANT61 in vivo. The microRNA (miRNA)-1286 was downregulated, while RAB31 upregulated in OS tissues and cells. GANT61 inhibited viability, migration, and invasion ability of OS cells (SaOS-2 and U2OS), and induced apoptosis and the ROS production, along with miRNA-1286 upregulation and RAB13 downregulation. After knockdown of miRNA-1286, GANT6-induced cell inhibition was attenuated, along with RAB31 upregulation. Inversely, miRNA-1286 overexpression downregulated RAB31. Dual-luciferase reporter assay verified that miR-1286 negatively targeted RAB13. Moreover, the knockdown of RAB31 stimulated apoptosis and ROS production while inhibited viability, migration, and invasion of GANT61-treated cells. In vivo experiments further confirmed that GANT61 inhibited tumor growth and RAB13 expression, but enhanced miRNA-1286. The study demonstrated that GANT61 inhibited cell aggressive phenotype and tumor growth by inducing oxidative stress through the miRNA-1286/RAB31 axis. Our findings provided a potential antitumor agent for the OS clinical treatment.
Molecular architecture and assembly of the DDB1-CUL4A ubiquitin ligase machinery. Protein ubiquitination is a common form of post-translational modification that regulates a broad spectrum of protein substrates in diverse cellular pathways. Through a three-enzyme (E1-E2-E3) cascade, the attachment of ubiquitin to proteins is catalysed by the E3 ubiquitin ligase, which is best represented by the superfamily of the cullin-RING complexes. Conserved from yeast to human, the DDB1-CUL4-ROC1 complex is a recently identified cullin-RING ubiquitin ligase, which regulates DNA repair, DNA replication and transcription, and can also be subverted by pathogenic viruses to benefit viral infection. Lacking a canonical SKP1-like cullin adaptor and a defined substrate recruitment module, how the DDB1-CUL4-ROC1 E3 apparatus is assembled for ubiquitinating various substrates remains unclear. Here we present crystallographic analyses of the virally hijacked form of the human DDB1-CUL4A-ROC1 machinery, which show that DDB1 uses one β-propeller domain for cullin scaffold binding and a variably attached separate double-β-propeller fold for substrate presentation. Through tandem-affinity purification of human DDB1 and CUL4A complexes followed by mass spectrometry analysis, we then identify a novel family of WD40-repeat proteins, which directly bind to the double-propeller fold of DDB1 and serve as the substrate-recruiting module of the E3. Together, our structural and proteomic results reveal the structural mechanisms and molecular logic underlying the assembly and versatility of a new family of cullin-RING E3 complexes.
Polymorphisms in melatonin synthesis pathways: Possible influences on depression. Background: It has been reported that rs4446909, a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the promoter of acetylserotonin methyltransferase (ASMT), influences the expression of the ASMT enzyme. The common G allele is associated with lower ASMT activity, and therefore, diminishes conversion of N-acetylserotonin to melatonin. The G allele was associated with recurrent depressive disorder in a Polish group. ASMT might also affect bipolar relapse, given evidence that N-acetylserotonin might stimulate TRKB receptors, and TRKB may influence mood relapse in bipolar disorder. Additionally, arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase (AANAT) polymorphisms have been reported associated with depression, perhaps through their influence upon N-acetylserotonin or melatonin synthesis.Results: To replicate and further explore these ideas, rs4446909 was genotyped in four research groups, as part of a panel of 610 SNPs surveyed by an Illumina Golden Gate assay. In 768 cases with delayed sleep phase disorder or matched controls, rs4446909 was indeed associated with the depressive symptoms on a self-report scale (P = 0.01, R2 = 0.007). However, there was no significant association of rs4446909 with self-reported depression in a sleep clinic patient group or with two groups of elderly men and women from multicenter studies, nor was the response to lithium treatment associated with rs4446909 in bipolar patients. No associations of two AANAT SNPs with depression were found.Conclusions: The evidence did not support a strong influence of rs4446909 upon mood, but the partial replication may be consistent with a modest effect. It is possible that larger or younger subject groups with improved phenotype ascertainment might demonstrate more persuasive replication.
Plasma miRNA-155 levels predict atrial fibrillation recurrence after cardioversion. Background: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are widely involved in the regulation of physiological processes, such as cell proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis, angiogenesis, and lipid metabolism. They might be associated with the pathological process of atrial fibrillation (AF). The purpose of our study is to investigate whether plasma miRNA-155 levels have a relationship with AF recurrence. Methods: A total of 110 patients with AF were studied, all with successful cardioversion. We measured the expression of plasma miRNA-155 in the recurrent group (n = 30) and in the nonrecurrent group (n = 80) by quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). In addition, the serumal levels of B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP), total cholesterol (TC), and fasting blood glucose (FBG) in the groups were determined by using an automatic biochemical analyzer; and an immunoenzymatic method was applied to determine the serumal levels of tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), C-reactive protein (CRP), and interleukin-6 (IL-6). The left atrial diameter (LAD) and left ventricular ejection fraction (EF) of all patients were measured by using echocardiography. Results: Our RT-PCR analysis found that miRNA-155 was significantly upregulated in the recurrent group compared with the nonrecurrent group. These increases of LAD and the levels of BNP, TNF-α, CRP, and IL-6 in the recurrent group were also revealed to be relative to those in the nonrecurrent group. There were no differences in the levels of TC and FBG, as well as in EF, between the groups. Moreover, miRNA-155 expression was observed to correlate positively with these outcomes of LAD, BNP, TNF-α, CRP, IL-6, and LAD. A diagnostic significance of predicting AF recurrence for plasma miRNA-155 was elucidated via ROC curve analysis. Conclusions: Our findings revealed that plasma miRNA-155 can present an ability to calculate AF recurrence after cardioversion.
Two Autism/Dyslexia Linked Variations of DOCK4 Disrupt the Gene Function on Rac1/Rap1 Activation, Neurite Outgrowth, and Synapse Development. Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and dyslexia are both neurodevelopmental disorders with high prevalence in children. Both disorders have strong genetic basis, and share similar social communication deficits co-occurring with impairments of reading or language. However, whether these two disorders share common genetic risks remain elusive. DOCK4 (dedicator for cytokinesis 4), a guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) for the small GTPase Rac1, is one of few genes that are associated with both ASD and dyslexia. Dock4 is important for neuronal development and social behaviors. Two DOCK4 variations, Exon27-52 deletion (protein product: Dock4-945VS) and a missense mutation at rs2074130 (protein product: Dock4-R853H), are associated with dyslexia and/or ASD with reading difficulties. The present study explores the molecular and cellular functions of these two DOCK4 variants on neuronal development, by comparing them with the wild-type Dock4 protein. Notably, it is revealed that both mutants of Dock4 showed decreased ability to activate not only Rac1, but also another small GTPase Rap1. Consistently, both mutants were dysfunctional for regulation of cell morphology and cytoskeleton. Using Neuro-2a cells and hippocampus neurons as models, we found that both mutants had compromised function in promoting neurite outgrowth and dendritic spine formation. Electrophysiological recordings further showed that R853H partially lost the ability to promote excitatory synaptic transmission, whereas 945VS totally lost the ability. Together, we identified R853 as a previously uncharacterized site for the regulation of the integrity of Dock4 function, and provides insights in understanding the common molecular pathophysiology of ASD and dyslexia.
Effect of matrix metalloproteinase-26 (MMP-26) during embryo implantation in the mouse. Matrix metalloproteinase-26 (MMP-26, endometase and matrilysin-2), a novel member of the MMPs family, is detected not only in the placenta and uterus, but is widely expressed in malignant tumors from different sources as well as in diverse tumor cell lines. However, the function of MMP-26 in the reproductive system has never been reported. Expression of MMP-26 in mouse embryos and the function of the MMP-26 antibody during mouse embryo implantation was examined for the first time by injecting the uterine horn, immunohistochemistry, in situ hybridization, co-culture of mouse blastocysts and uterine monolayer epithelial cells, Western blot, RT-PCR, Northern blot and zymography. Our results show that there is strong expression of MMP-26 mRNA and protein in the mouse embryo. Furthermore, the MMP-26 antibody dramatically inhibited mouse embryo implantation and significantly inhibited adhesion and outgrowth of mouse blastocysts on in vitro uterine monolayer epithelial cells. At the same time, the MMP-26 antibody inhibited the expression of integrin αV mRNA and protein in a dose-dependent manner. These data suggest that MMP-26 may play a role in some of the tissue-remodeling events associated with the invasion of the endometrium by trophoblast cells and facilitate successfully embryo implantation.
Interplay of LIS1 and MeCP2: Interactions and Implications With the Neurodevelopmental Disorders Lissencephaly and Rett Syndrome. LIS1 is the main causative gene for lissencephaly, while MeCP2 is the main causative gene for Rett syndrome, both of which are neurodevelopmental diseases. Here we report nuclear functions for LIS1 and identify previously unrecognized physical and genetic interactions between the products of these two genes in the cell nucleus, that has implications on MeCP2 organization, neuronal gene expression and mouse behavior. Reduced LIS1 levels affect the association of MeCP2 with chromatin. Transcriptome analysis of primary cortical neurons derived from wild type, Lis1±, MeCP2−/y, or double mutants mice revealed a large overlap in the differentially expressed (DE) genes between the various mutants. Overall, our findings provide insights on molecular mechanisms involved in the neurodevelopmental disorders lissencephaly and Rett syndrome caused by dysfunction of LIS1 and MeCP2, respectively.
Biphasic regulation of transcription factor nuclear factor-κB activity in human endothelial cells by lysophosphatidylcholine through protein kinase C-mediated pathway. Lysophosphatidylcholine (lysoPC), which is generated in oxidized LDL (Ox-LDL) and abundantly exists in atherosclerotic arterial walls, has been shown to alter various endothelial functions and induces several endothelial genes expressed in atherosclerotic arterial walls. Nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB), a pleiotropic transcription factor, plays an important role in regulation of expression of various genes implicated in atherosclerosis. We have previously reported that lysoPC transferred from Ox-LDL to endothelial surface membrane activates endothelial protein kinase C (PKC), leading to modulated endothelial functions. This study was aimed at determining whether lysoPC could modulate activity of transcription factors in cultured human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) by using electrophoretic mobility shift assay. LysoPC was found to increase DNA-binding activity of NF-κB in HUVECs within 15 minutes, which peaked at 1 to 2 hours and subsequently declined to the baseline level at 6 hours. Lower concentrations (5 to 15 μmol/L) of lysoPC markedly increased NF-κB activity, but higher concentration (50 μmol/L) of lysoPC inhibited the activity. Phorbol 12- myristate 13-acetate, a potent activator of PKC, also augmented NF-κB activity in HUVECs, mimicking the effects of lysoPC; furthermore, calphostin C and chelerythrine chloride, specific PKC inhibitors, and α-tocopherol, a clinically potent PKC inhibitor, suppressed the lysoPC-induced NF-κB activation. These results indicate that lysoPC regulates NF-κB activity in a biphasic manner dependent on its concentrations and incubation time in human endothelial cells and the endothelial PKC activation may in part be involved in the lysoPC-induced NF-κB activation. Thus, the time course and the positive and negative biphasic regulatory actions of lysoPC on NF-κB activity in endothelial cells might exhibit a unique effect of lysoPC in arterial walls on the different stages of atherosclerosis.
Targeting HMGB1 by ethyl pyruvate ameliorates systemic lupus erythematosus and reverses the senescent phenotype of bone marrow-mesenchymal stem cells. Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a chronic autoimmune disease involving multiple organs and systems. Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) from SLE patients have demonstrated defects such as impaired growth, senescence phenotype and immunomodulatory functions. Some studies have suggested the close connection between inflammation microenvironment and cellular senescence. In the current study, we detected cytokines levels in bone marrow supernatant by the quantitative proteomics analysis, and found the expression of HMGB1 was remarkably increased in bone marrow from SLE patients. Senescence associated-β-galactosidase (SA-β-gal) staining, F-actin staining and flow cytometry were used to detect the senescence of cells. After stimulation of HMGB1 in normal MSCs, the ratio of SA-β-gal positive in BM-MSCs was increased, the organization of cytoskeleton was disordered, and TLR4-NF-κB signaling was activated. Finally, Ethyl pyruvate (EP) (40 mg/kg and 100 mg/kg, three times a week), a high security HMGB1 inhibitor, was injected intraperitoneally to treat MRL/lpr mice for 8 weeks. We demonstrated that EP alleviated the clinical aspects of lupus nephritis and prolonged survival of MRL/lpr mice. In the meantime, EP reversed the senescent phenotype of BM-MSCs from MRL/lpr mice. HMGB1 could be a promising target in SLE patients, and might be one of the reasons of recurrence after MSCs transplantation.
Precursor of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (proBDNF) forms a complex with huntingtin-associated protein-1 (HAP1) and sortilin that modulates proBDNF trafficking, degradation, and processing. proBDNF, a precursor of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), is anterogradely transported and released from nerve terminals, but the mechanism underlying this process remains unclear. In this study, we report that proBDNF forms a complex with Huntingtin associated protein-1 (HAP1) and sortilin, which plays an important role in proBDNF intracellular trafficking and stabilization. The interaction of proBDNF with both HAP1A and sortilin in co-transfected HEK293 cells is confirmed by both fluorescence resonance energy transfer and co-immunoprecipitation. The frequent co-localization (>90%) of endogenous HAP1, sortilin, and proBDNF is also found in cultured cortical neurons. Mapping studies using GST pulldown and competition assays has defined the interacting region of HAP1 with proBDNF within amino acids 371-445 and the binding sequences of proBDNF to HAP1 between amino acids 65 and 90. Fluorescence recovery after photobleaching confirms the defective movement of proBDNF-containing vesicles in neurites of HAP1-/-neurons, which can be partially restored by reintroducing HAP1 cDNA into the neurons. However, the effect is significantly increased by simultaneously reintroducing both HAP1 and sortilin. proBDNF and HAP1 are highly co-localized with organelle markers for the Golgi network, microtubules, molecular motor, or endosomes in normal neurons, but this co-localization is reduced in HAP1-/- neurons. Co-immunoprecipitation and Western blot showed that sortilin stabilizes the proBDNF·HAP1 complex in co-transfected HEK293 cells, helping to prevent proBDNF degradation. Furthermore, the complex facilitates furin cleavage to release mature BDNF.
Effect of mutations in the β5-β7 loop on the structure and properties of human small heat shock protein HSP22 (HspB8, H11). The human genome encodes ten different small heat shock proteins, each of which contains the so-called α-crystallin domain consisting of 80-100 residues and located in the C-terminal part of the molecule. The α-crystallin domain consists of six or seven β-strands connected by different size loops and combined in two β-sheets. Mutations in the loop connecting the β5 and β7 strands and conservative residues of β7 in αA-, αB-crystallin and HSP27 correlate with the development of different congenital diseases. To understand the role of this part of molecule in the structure and function of small heat shock proteins, we mutated two highly conservative residues (K137 and K141) of human HSP22 and investigated the properties of the K137E and K137,141E mutants. These mutations lead to a decrease in intrinsic Trp fluorescence and the double mutation decreased fluorescence resonance energy transfer from Trp to bis-ANS bound to HSP22. Mutations K137E and especially K137,141E lead to an increase in unordered structure in HSP22 and increased susceptibility to trypsinolysis. Both mutations decreased the probability of dissociation of small oligomers of HSP22, and mutation K137E increased the probability of HSP22 crosslinking. The wild-type HSP22 possessed higher chaperone-like activity than their mutants when insulin or rhodanase were used as the model substrates. Because conservative Lys residues located in the β5-β7 loop and in the β7 strand appear to play an important role in the structure and properties of HSP22, mutations in this part of the small heat shock protein molecule might have a deleterious effect and often correlate with the development of different congenital diseases.
Invasive lobular carcinomas do not express basal cytokeratin markers CK5/6, CK14 and CK17. The expression of basal cytokeratin markers CK5/6 in breast carcinomas has been associated with high histological grade and poor clinical outcome. A previous study has shown that CK5/6 can be detected in up to 17% of invasive lobular carcinomas (ILC). Here we study the expression of three basal cytokeratin markers (CK5/6, CK14, and CK17) in 53 ILC cases diagnosed by histology and lack of E-cadherin expression. Among them, 42 were classic lobular carcinomas, 6 were tubular-lobular carcinoma, and 5 were pleomorphic lobular carcinomas. There was no significant difference among these three groups in patients' age, tumor size, uni- and multi-focality, expression of ER and PR, lymphovascular invasion, perineural invasion and lymph node metastasis. The only statistically different factor was HER2 over-expression, which was observed only in pleomorphic ILC (P = 0.0073). None of the 53 cases expressed CK5/6, CK14 or CK17; and 51/53 cases expressed luminal markers CK8 and CK18, and the two negative cases were both classic lobular carcinoma, with positivity for ER and PR. In conclusion, all 53 cases of ILC failed to show expression by any of the three basal CK markers, suggesting that very few ILC will demonstrate a basal phenotype when assessed by immunohistochemistry (IHC). More studies are needed to investigate molecular classification in lobular carcinoma of the breast.
Cytomegalovirus Expresses the Chemokine Homologue vXCL1 Capable of Attracting XCR1+ CD4- Dendritic Cells. Cytomegaloviruses (CMV) have developed various strategies to escape the immune system of the host. One strategy involves the expression of virus-encoded chemokines to modulate the host chemokine network. We have identified in the English isolate of rat CMV (murid herpesvirus 8 [MuHV8]) an open reading frame encoding a protein homologous to the chemokineXCL1, the only known C chemokine. Viral XCL1 (vXCL1), a glycosylated protein of 96 amino acids, can be detected 13 h postinfection in the supernatant of MuHV8-infected rat embryo fibroblasts. vXCL1 exclusively binds to CD4- rat dendritic cells (DC), a subset of DC that express the corresponding chemokine receptor XCR1. Like endogenous rat XCL1, vXCL1 selectively chemoattracts XCR1+ CD4- DC. Since XCR1+ DC in mice and humans have been shown to excel in antigen cross-presentation and thus in the induction of cytotoxic CD8+ T lymphocytes, the virus has apparently hijacked this gene to subvert cytotoxic immune responses. The biology of vXCL1 offers an interesting opportunity to study the role of XCL1 and XCR1+ DC in the cross-presentation of viral antigens.
Mesenchymal stem cells inhibit lipopolysaccharide-induced inflammatory responses of BV2 microglial cells through TSG-6. Microglia are the primary immunocompetent cells in brain tissue and microglia-mediated inflammation is associated with the pathogenesis of various neuronal disorders. Recently, many studies have shown that mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) display a remarkable ability to modulate inflammatory and immune responses through the release of a variety of bioactive molecules, thereby protecting the central nervous system. Previously, we reported that MSCs have the ability to modulate inflammatory responses in a traumatic brain injury model and that the potential mechanisms may be partially attributed to upregulated TNF-α stimulated gene/protein 6 (TSG-6) expression. However, whether TSG-6 exerts an anti-inflammatory effect by affecting microglia is not fully understood. In this study, we investigated the anti-inflammatory effects of MSCs and TSG-6 in an in vitro lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced BV2 microglial activation model. We found that MSCs and TSG-6 significantly inhibited the expression of pro-inflammatory mediators in activated microglia. However, MSC effects on microglia were attenuated when TSG-6 expression was silenced. In addition, we found that the activation of nuclear factor (NF)-κB and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathways in LPS-stimulated BV2 microglial cells was significantly inhibited by TSG-6. Furthermore, we found that the presence of CD44 in BV2 microglial cells was essential for MSC- and TSG-6-mediated inhibition of pro-inflammatory gene expression and of NF-κB and MAPK activation in BV2 microglial cells. The results of this study suggest that MSCs can modulate microglia activation through TSG-6 and that TSG-6 attenuates the inflammatory cascade in activated microglia. Our study indicates that novel mechanisms are responsible for the immunomodulatory effect of MSCs on microglia and that MSCs, as well as TSG-6, might be promising therapeutic agents for the treatment of neurotraumatic injuries or neuroinflammatory diseases associated with microglial activation.
The glutamate/neutral amino acid transporter family SLC1: Molecular, physiological and pharmacological aspects. The solute carrier family 1 (SLC1) includes five high-affinity glutamate transporters, EAAC1, GLT-1, GLAST, EAAT4 and EAAT5 (SLC1A1, SLC1A2, SLC1A3, SLC1A6, and SLC1A7, respectively) as well as the two neutral amino acid transporters, ASCT1 and ASCT2 (SLC1A4 and ALC1A5, respectively). Although each of these transporters have similar predicted structures, they exhibit distinct functional properties which are variations of a common transport mechanism. The high-affinity glutamate transporters mediate transport of L-Glu, L-Asp and D-Asp, accompanied by the cotransport of 3 Na+ and 1 H+, and the countertransport of 1 K+, whereas ASC transporters mediate Na+-dependent exchange of small neutral amino acids such as Ala, Ser, Cys and Thr. The unique coupling of the glutamate transporters allows uphill transport of glutamate into cells against a concentration gradient. This feature plays a crucial role in protecting neurons against glutamate excitotoxicity in the central nervous system. During pathological conditions, such as brain ischemia (e.g. after a stroke), however, glutamate exit can occur due to "reversed glutamate transport", which is caused by a reversal of the electrochemical gradients of the coupling ions. Selective inhibition of the neuronal glutamate transporter EAAC1 (SLC1A1) may be of therapeutic interest to block glutamate release from neurons during ischemia. On the other hand, upregulation of the glial glutamate transporter GLT1 (SLC1A2) may help protect motor neurons in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), since loss of function of GLT1 has been associated with the pathogenesis of certain forms of ALS.
Identification and Validation of lncRNA-AC087588.2 in Lung Adenocarcinoma: A Novel Prognostic and Diagnostic Indicator. Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is the most common histological lung cancer, and it is the leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide. Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) have been implicated in the initiation and progression of various cancers. LncRNA-AC087588.2 (ENSG00000274976) is a novel lncRNA that is abnormally expressed in diverse cancer types, including LUAD. However, the clinical significance, prognostic value, diagnostic value, immune role, and the potential biological function of AC087588.2 LUAD remain elusive. In this study, we found that AC087588.2 was upregulated and associated with a poor prognosis in LUAD. In addition, univariate and multivariate Cox regression analysis indicated that AC087588.2 could be an independent prognostic factor for LUAD. Functionally, the knockdown of AC087588.2 restrained LUAD cell proliferation and migration in vitro. Finally, we constructed a ceRNA network that included hsa-miR-30a-5p and four mRNAs (ANLN, POLR3G, EHBP1, and ERO1A) specific to AC087588.2 in LUAD. The Kaplan–Meier survival analysis showed that lower expression of hsa-miR-30a-5p and higher expression of ANLN, POLR3G, EHBP1, and ERO1A were associated with adverse clinical outcomes in patients with LUAD. This finding provided a comprehensive view of the AC087588.2-mediated ceRNA network in LUAD, thereby highlighting its potential role in the diagnosis and prognosis of LUAD.
Development of Cell-Penetrating Asymmetric Interfering RNA Targeting Connective Tissue Growth Factor. Connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) is a multifunctional matricellular protein, playing a role as a central mediator in tissue remodeling and fibrosis. A number of reports have shown the pivotal roles of CTGF in the progression of fibrosis, suggesting CTGF as a promising therapeutic target for the treatment of fibrotic disorders including hypertrophic scars and keloids. In this study, we present the development of an interfering RNA molecule that efficiently inhibits the expression of CTGF via RNA interference mechanism both in\xa0vitro and in\xa0vivo. Chemical modifications were introduced to the asymmetric interfering RNA (asiRNA) backbone structure. The resulting RNA molecule, termed cell-penetrating asiRNA (cp-asiRNA), entered into cells and triggered RNA interference-mediated gene silencing without delivery vehicles. The gene-silencing activity of cp-asiRNA targeting CTGF (cp-asiCTGF) was examined both in\xa0vitro and in\xa0vivo. Furthermore, the administration of cp-asiCTGF in the rat skin excision wound model efficiently reduced the induction of CTGF and collagens during the wound-healing process. These results suggest that the cp-asiCTGF molecule could be developed into antifibrotic therapeutics such as antiscar drugs.
Association of APOE with primary open-angle glaucoma suggests a protective effect for APOE ε4. PURPOSE. Prior studies have demonstrated that microglial activation is involved in the pathogenesis of primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). Here we sought to identify genetic associations between POAG and variants in APOE and TREM2, genes associated with Alzheimer disease (AD) that critically regulate microglial neurodegeneration-associated molecular signature. METHODS. APOE genotypes were called using imputed data from the NEIGHBOR consortium (2120 POAG cases, 2262 controls) and a second cohort from the Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary (MEEI; 486 cases, 344 controls). TREM2 coding variants were genotyped by means of the Illumina HumanExome BeadArray. The data set was analyzed for association with POAG overall, as well as the high-tension glaucoma (HTG) and normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) subgroups, using logistic regression adjusting for age and sex. RESULTS. In the combined NEIGHBOR-MEEI data set, significant association was observed for APOE ε4 in POAG overall (odds ratio [OR], 0.83; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.74–0.94; P = 0.0022) and in both the HTG subgroup (OR, 0.81; 95% CI, 0.70–0.94; P = 0.0052) and NTG subgroup (OR, 0.71; 95% CI, 0.58–0.87; P = 0.0014). A rare TREM2 variant (A105V) was found only in HTG cases (3 of 2863 cases) and in none of the controls (P = 0.03). Three TREM2 rare variants associated with AD were not significantly associated with POAG (P > 0.05). CONCLUSIONS. We have found that the APOE ε4 allele is associated with a reduced risk of POAG. Interestingly, the same allele is adversely associated with AD, suggesting a mechanistic difference between neurodegenerative diseases of the eye and the brain. TREM2 variants associated with AD did not significantly contribute to POAG risk.
B complex vitamins activate rat guanylate cyclase and increase cyclic GMP levels. Abstract. Since B complex vitamins and the intracellular messenger cyclic guanosine monophosphate (GMP) have similar effects of promoting growth, DNA and protein synthesis, the present investigation was designed to determine if the B complex vitamins' mechanism of action might involve cyclic GMP. All of the B complex vitamins increased rat cyclic GMP tissue levels. The cause of these increased cyclic GMP levels was activation of the enzyme guanylate cyclase [E.C.4.6.1.2.] which was increased significantly (P<0·001) in a variety of tissues at the 1 nmol 1‐1 concentration of these vitamins. The maximal activation of this enzyme required the presence of manganese ion. The present investigation suggests that the guanylate cyclase‐cyclic GMP system may play a role in the mechanism of action of B complex vitamins at the cellular level.
'DISC1 (Disrupted-In-Schizophrenia 1) is a centrosome-associated protein that interacts with MAP1A, MIPT3, ATF4/5 and NUDEL: Regulation and loss of interaction with mutation. Disrupted-In-Schizophrenia 1 (DISC1) is a novel gene associated with schizophrenia by multiple genetic studies. In order to determine how mutations in DISC1 might cause susceptibility to schizophrenia, we undertook a comprehensive study of the cellular biology of DISC1 in its full-length and disease-associated mutant forms. DISC1 interacts by yeast two-hybrid, mammalian two-hybrid, and co-immunoprecipitation assays with multiple proteins of the centrosome and cytoskeletal system, including MIPT3, MAP1A and NUDEL; proteins which localize receptors to membranes, including α-actinin2 and β4-spectrin; and proteins which transduce signals from membrane receptors, including ATF4 and ATF5. Truncated mutant DISC1 fails to interact with ATF4, ATF5 or NUDEL. Deletion mapping demonstrated that DISC1 has distinct interaction domains: MAP1A interacts via its LC2 domain with the N-terminus of DISC1, whereas MIPT3 and NUDEL bind via their C-terminal domains to the central coiled-coil domain of DISC1, and ATF4/5 bind via their C-terminal domains to the C-terminus of DISC1. In its full-length form, DISC1 protein localizes to predominantly perinuclear punctate structures which extend into neurites in some cells; mutant truncated DISC1, by contrast, is seen in a diffuse pattern throughout the cytoplasm and abundantly in neurites. Both forms co-localize with the centrosomal complex, although truncated less abundantly than full-length DISC1. Although both full-length and mutant DISC1 are found in microtubule fractions, neither form of DISC1 appears to bind directly to microtubules, but rather do so in a MIPT3-dependent fashion that is stabilized by taxol. Based on these data, we propose that DISC1 is a multifunctional protein whose truncation contributes to schizophrenia susceptibility by disrupting intracellular transport, neurite architecture and/or neuronal migration, all of which have been hypothesized to be pathogenic in the schizophrenic brain.
'Role of subnano-, nano- and submicron-surface features on osteoblast differentiation of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells. Subnano, nano and sub-micron surface features can selectively activate integrin receptors and induce osteoblast differentiation of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells. Although it is widely accepted that nanoscale titanium surface roughness may promote differentiation of various osteoblast lineages, there has been no clear report on the threshold dimension of surface features and the optimized dimensions of surface features for triggering integrin activation and stem cell differentiation. This study systematically controlled titanium surface features from the sub-nano to sub-micron scales and investigated the corresponding effects on stem cell responses, such as integrin activation, cyclins, key transcriptional genes of osteoblast differentiation and osteoblastic phenotype genes. Surface features with sub-nano surface dimensions were insufficient to increase integrin activation compared to pure nanoscale titanium surface features. Although both pure nanoscale and nano-submicron hybrid scales of titanium surface features were sufficient for activating integrin-ligand proteins interactions through the α integrin subunits, only nano-submicron hybrid titanium surface features significantly accelerated subsequent osteoblast differentiation of primary mouse bone marrow stromal cells after 2 weeks. In addition, live cell analysis of human bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells on transparent titanium demonstrated rapid cytoskeletal re-organization on the nanoscale surface features, which ultimately induced higher expression of osteoblast phenotype genes after 3 weeks.
Set1/COMPASS and mediator are repurposed to promote epigenetic transcriptional memory. In yeast and humans, previous experiences can lead to epigenetic transcriptional memory: repressed genes that exhibit mitotically heritable changes in chromatin structure and promoter recruitment of poised RNA polymerase II preinitiation complex (RNAPII PIC), which enhances future reactivation. Here, we show that INO1 memory in yeast is initiated by binding of the Sfl1 transcription factor to the cis-acting Memory Recruitment Sequence, targeting INO1 to the nuclear periphery. Memory requires a remodeled form of the Set1/COMPASS methyltransferase lacking Spp1, which dimethylates histone H3 lysine 4 (H3K4me2). H3K4me2 recruits the SET3C complex, which plays an essential role in maintaining this mark. Finally, while active INO1 is associated with Cdk8- Mediator, during memory, Cdk8+ Mediator recruits poised RNAPII PIC lacking the Kin28 CTD kinase. Aspects of this mechanism are generalizable to yeast and conserved in human cells. Thus, COMPASS and Mediator are repurposed to promote epigenetic transcriptional poising by a highly conserved mechanism.
Spinocerebellar ataxia type 17 mutation as a causative and susceptibility gene in parkinsonism. Objective: To investigate the role of spinocerebellar ataxia type 17 (SCA17) in the development of parkinsonism. Method: We screened 1,155 parkinsonian patients (931 with Parkinson disease and 224 with multiple system atrophy) and 400 normal subjects for SCA17. 99mTc-TR0DAT-l SPECT was used to evaluate the striatal dopamine transporter (DAT) status. Results: Trinucleotide expansion in the SCA17 gene was found in 10 parkinsonian patients (8 with Parkinson disease, 2 with multiple system atrophy) using 42 repeats as an upper normal limit. The repeat sizes in the patients ranged from 43 to 46, which are considered to be low-range expansions. All patients had interrupted sequences. Three probands and three asymptomatic carriers underwent 99mTc-TR0DAT-1 SPECT. Striatal DAT binding was markedly reduced in all probands and mildly decreased in one asymptomatic carrier. Among the 400 normal control subjects, there was one individual with an expansion of 44 repeats, another with 43 repeats, and two with 42 repeats. Striatal DAT binding was decreased not only in the control subjects with 44 or 43 repeats, but in ones with 42 repeats, suggesting that an expansion as low as 42 repeats might constitute a susceptibility gene for parkinsonism. Conclusions: Low-range expansion of the SCA17 gene is not a rare genetic cause of parkinsonism without ataxia in our population. Reduced penetrance or variable expressivity in low-range expansion might be an explanation for the blurred cutoff point for normal expansion in SCA17.
Emergence of infectious simian virus 40 whose AT tract in the replication origin/early promoter region is substituted by cellular or viral DNAs. In simian virus 40 (SV40) and several other polyomaviruses, the TATA box of the early promoter is embedded in an AT tract that is also an essential part of the replication origin. We generated an ‘AT trap’, an SV40 genome lacking the AT tract and unable to grow in CV-1 monkey cells. Cotransfection of the AT trap with oligonucleotides containing AT tracts of human polyomaviruses, a poly(A : T) tract or variants of the SV40 WT sequence all restored infectious virus. In a transfection of the AT trap without a suitable oligonucleotide, an AT-rich segment was incorporated, stemming either from bovine (calf serum) or monkey (host cell) DNA. Similarly, when cells were grown with human serum, a human DNA segment was captured by SV40 to substitute for the missing AT stretch. We conclude that the virus is quite opportunistic in accepting heterologous substitutes, and that even low-abundance DNA from serum can be incorporated into the viral genome.
Identification of a WT1 protein-derived peptide, WT1187, as a HLA-A*0206-restricted, WT1-specific CTL epitope. The Wilms' tumor gene WT1 is overexpressed in various kinds of hematopoietic malignancies as well as solid cancers, and this protein has been demonstrated to be an attractive target antigen for cancer immunotherapy. WT1-specific CTL epitopeswith a restriction of HLA-A*2402 or HLA-A*0201 have been already identified. In the present study it has been demonstrated that a 9-mer WT1-derived WT1187 peptide, which had already been shown to elicit a WT1-specific CTL response with a restriction of HLA-A*0201, can also elicit a CTL response with a restriction of HLA-A*0206. In all three different HLA-A*0206+ healthy donors examined, WT1187 peptide-specific CTL could be generated from peripheral blood mononuclear cells, and the CTL showed cytotoxic activity that depended on dual expression of WT1 and HLA-A*0206 molecules. The present study describes the first identification of a HLA-A*0206-restricted, WT1-specific CTL epitope. The present results should help to broaden the application of WT1 peptide-based immunotherapy fromonly HLA-A*0201- positive to HLA-A*0206-positive cancer patients as well.
Contribution of BRCA1 and BRCA2 to familial ovarian cancer: A gynecologic oncology group study. Objectives. The aim of the study was to determine the prevalence of BRCA1 and BRCA2 germline mutations among ovarian cancer patients ascertained to have a family history of ovarian cancer. Methods. Ovarian cancer patients were eligible if they had a family history of cancer that met any one of the following criteria: (1) a first-degree relative with ovarian cancer; (2) a second-degree relative with ovarian cancer plus a first-degree relative with breast cancer (diagnosed younger than 50 years of age); or (3) a first- and a second-degree relative with breast cancer (diagnosed younger than 50 years of age). The entire coding sequence of BRCA1 and exon 11 of BRCA2 were screened for germline alterations by single-strand conformation polymorphism analysis. Results. Of 26 eligible patients screened for mutations, 12 had deleterious alterations, 8 in BRCA1 and 4 in BRCA2. A correlation was noted between the presence of a BRCA1 mutation and the strength of family history of breast ovarian cancer, with the likelihood of a mutation increasing with the number of affected relatives (P = 0.0002). No association was detected between the location of mutations in BRCA1 and the ratio of ovarian cancer cases relative to breast cancer (P = 0.28). Conclusions. Mutations in BRCA1 or BRCA2 are present in about 50% of ovarian cancer patients with at least one first-degree relative with disease, and in 70% of patients with two or more relatives with ovarian cancer.
'MicroRNAs regulate distal region of mandibular development through Hh signaling. Mandibular anomalies are often seen in various congenital diseases, indicating that mandibular development is under strict molecular control. Therefore, it is crucial to understand the molecular mechanisms involved in mandibular development. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are noncoding small single-stranded RNAs that play a critical role in regulating the level of gene expression. We found that the mesenchymal conditional deletion of miRNAs arising from a lack of Dicer (an essential molecule for miRNA processing, Dicerfl/fl;Wnt1Cre), led to an abnormal groove formation at the distal end of developing mandibles. At E10.5, when the region forms, inhibitors of Hh signaling, Ptch1 and Hhip1 showed increased expression at the region in Dicer mutant mandibles, while Gli1 (a major mediator of Hh signaling) was significantly downregulated in mutant mandibles. These suggest that Hh signaling was downregulated at the distal end of Dicer mutant mandibles by increased inhibitors. To understand whether the abnormal groove formation inDicer mutant mandibles was caused by the downregulation of Hh signaling, mice with a mesenchymal deletion of Hh signaling activity arising from a lack of Smo (an essential molecule for Hh signaling activation, Smofl/fl;Wnt1Cre) were examined. Smofl/fl;Wnt1Cre mice showed a similar phenotype in the distal region of their mandibles to those in Dicerfl/fl;Wnt1Cre mice. We also found that approximately 400 miRNAs were expressed in wild-type mandibular mesenchymes at E10.5, and six microRNAs were identified as miRNAs with binding potential against both Ptch1 and Hhip1. Their expressions at the distal end of the mandible were confirmed by in situ hybridization. This indicates that microRNAs regulate the distal part of mandibular formation at an early stage of development by involving Hh signaling activity through controlling its inhibitor expression level.
Genetic and pharmacological targeting of A2a receptor improves function of anti-mesothelin CAR T cells. Background: CAR T cell-based therapies have shown promising results in hematological malignancies. Results of CAR T cell projects in solid tumors have been less impressive, and factors including lack of targetable antigens and immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME) have been suggested as culprits. Adenosine, a metabolite which is highly produced in TME, is known to mediate the suppression of anti-tumor T cell responses via binding and signaling through adenosine 2a receptor (A2aR). Methods: In this study, the expression of A2aR and the effects of its activation on the function of fully human anti-mesothelin CAR T cells (MSLN-CAR T), were analyzed. Afterwards, the molecular and pharmacological means to overcome the inhibitory effects of A2aR signaling on CAR T cell function were used. This was performed by targeting A2aR expression in MSLN-CAR T cells using various anti-A2aR shRNA sequences embedded in the CAR vector and an A2aR pharmacological antagonist, SCH-58261. Statistical analyses were performed Prism 7 software. Results: Our experiments showed significant A2aR upregulation on T cells during the CAR T cell production procedure (cell activation and transduction). Activation of adenosine signaling using adenosine analog led to the suppression of all major anti-tumor functions in MSLN-CAR T cells. Interestingly, CAR T cells that carried the anti-A2aR shRNA sequences were resistant to the inhibitory effects of adenosine signaling. Pharmacological inhibition of A2aR reversed the reduction in CAR T cell proliferation and cytokine response caused by the adenosine analog; however, it failed to rescue the cytotoxic function of the cells. Conclusion: Altogether, our results indicate that mitigating A2aR signaling by genetic targeting of the receptor might be a promising approach in improving CAR T cell function in an unreceptive microenvironment and could potentially improve the outcome of treatment in clinical settings.
Impaired mitotic progression and preimplantation lethality in mice lacking OMCG1, a new evolutionarily conserved nuclear protein. While highly conserved through evolution, the cell cycle has been extensively modified to adapt to new developmental programs. Recently, analyses of mouse mutants revealed that several important cell cycle regulators are either dispensable for development or have a tissue- or cell-type-specific function, indicating that many aspects of cell cycle regulation during mammalian embryo development remain to be elucidated. Here, we report on the characterization of a new gene, Omcg1, which codes for a nuclear zinc finger protein. Embryos lacking Omcg1 die by the end of preimplantation development. In vitro cultured Omcg1-null blastocysts exhibit a dramatic reduction in the total cell number, a high mitotic index, and the presence of abnormal mitotic figures. Importantly, we found that Omcg1 disruption results in the lengthening of M phase rather than in a mitotic block. We show that the mitotic delay in Omcg1-/- embryos is associated with neither a dysfunction of the spindle checkpoint nor abnormal global histone modifications. Taken together, these results suggest that Omcg1 is an important regulator of the cell cycle in the preimplantation embryo.
Association of serum IFN-λ3 with inflammatory and fibrosis markers in patients with chronic hepatitis C virus infection. Background: Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is one of the major causes of liver cancer. The single nucleotide polymorphisms within the IFNL3 gene, which encodes interferon (IFN)-λ3, are strongly associated with the response to pegylated IFN-α (PEG-IFN-α) plus ribavirin (RBV) therapy in chronic hepatitis C (C-CH) patients. However, the roles of IFN-λ3 in chronic HCV infection are still elusive. In this study, we aimed to identify clinical and immunological factors influencing IFN-λ3 and evaluated whether serum IFN-λ3 levels are involved or not involved in the response to PEG-IFN-α plus RBV therapy. Methods: We enrolled 119 C-CH patients with HCV genotype 1 infection who underwent 48\xa0weeks of PEG-IFN-α plus RBV therapy. As controls, 23 healthy subjects and 56 patients with non-HCV viral hepatitis were examined. Serum IFN-λ3 was quantified by chemiluminescence enzyme immunoassay, and 27 cytokines or chemokines were assayed by the multiplexed BioPlex system. Results: Serum IFN-λ3 levels were higher in C-CH patients or acute hepatitis E patients than in healthy volunteers. Such levels did not differ between the IFNL3 genotypes. In C-CH patients, serum IFN-λ3 was positively correlated with aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase, α-fetoprotein, histological activity, fibrosis index, IFN-γ-inducible protein 10, and platelet-derived growth factor. Multivariate analysis showed that IFNL3 single nucleotide polymorphisms, fibrosis score, and macrophage inflammatory protein\xa01α were involved in the sustained viral clearance in PEG-IFN-α plus RBV therapy; however, serum IFN-λ3 levels were not involved. Conclusion: Serum IFN-λ3 levels are increased in C-CH patients regardless of the IFNL3 genotype. IFN-λ3 is a biomarker reflecting the activity and fibrosis of liver disease, but is not correlated with the responsiveness to PEG-IFN-α plus RBV therapy.
Promoter methylation and expression of tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 3 gene in gastric cancer. AIM: To analyze the relations among the aberrant methylation of the promoter CpG islands of tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 3 (TIMP3) gene, its protein expression, and the clinicopathological features of gastric adenocarcinoma. METHODS: The methylation status of promoter CpG islands and protein expression of TIMP3 gene in the tumors and the adjacent normal mucosal tissues of 78 patients with gastric adenocarcinoma were detected by methylation-specific PCR (MSP) and immunohistochemistry respectively. RESULTS: The CpG island methylation of TIMP3 was detected in tumour tissues, cancer-adjacent tissues and lymph node with metastasis. In increasing order of frequency, the hypermethylation rates of these tissues were 35.9% (28 of 78 non-neoplastic tissues), 85% (17 of 20 early-stage cases), 89.7% (52 of 58 progression-stage cases), and 100% (78 of 78 metabasis lymph node), respectively, and there was marked difference between cancerous and non-cancerous tissues (P < 0.05). However, there were no significant differences among subgroups of tumor tissues (P > 0.05). Immunohistochemistry analysis confirmed TIMP3 down-regulation in tumur tissues. The rate of TIMP3 gene expression in non-neoplastic tissues was 100%, while in tumour tissues, it decreased dramatically: in early-stage cancer, it decreased to 30% (6/20); in progression stage, it was 3.4% (2/58); and in metabasis lymph node, it was 0% (0/78). Of 70 tumor tissues with negative TIMP3 expression, 64 (91.4%) were hypermethylated and 6 (8.6%) were unmethylated, indicating that there were significant association between hypermethylation and reduced or negative TIMP3 expression (P < 0.01). CONCLUSION: The hypermethylation of promoter region in CpG islands is a main mechanism of reduced and loss expression of TIMP3 gene, and it may provide an evidence for molecular diagnosis and stage evaluation of gastric cancer.
Suppressor of cytokine signaling-2: A growth hormone-inducible inhibitor of intestinal epithelial cell proliferation. Background & Aims: Growth hormone (GH) and insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) increase intestinal growth. GH is thought to act indirectly via IGF-I. In several models, including rats given total parenteral nutrition (TPN), IGF-I more potently stimulates mucosal growth than GH, even when GH induces similar circulating IGF-I levels. These studies test the hypothesis that GH induces a suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS), which inhibits intestinal epithelial cell (IEC) proliferation. Methods: Rats on TPN received vehicle, GH, or IGF-I. Jejunal SOCS (SOCS-1, -2, -3, and cytokine-inducible SH2-domain-containing protein [CIS]) and IGF-I messenger RNA (mRNA) were quantified. Caco-2, IEC-6 cells, and SOCS-2 null and wild-type (WT) mice were used to examine the expression and functional role of SOCS-2. Results: As reported previously, IGF-I, but not GH, prevented mucosal atrophy during TPN, although GH elevated plasma IGF-I and increased body weight. GH, but not IGF-I, induced jejunal SOCS-2 mRNA. SOCS-2 mRNA levels in GH and IGF-I-treated rats inversely correlated with mucosal weight. SOCS-2 is expressed in Caco-2 cells, and elevated SOCS-2 expression in postconfluent cells is associated with reduced proliferative rates. SOCS-2 overexpression in Caco-2 cells inhibited cell proliferation and promoted differentiation. In IEC-6 cells, GH induced SOCS-2 and reduced basal or IGF-I-induced proliferation. GH also reduced proliferative activity in isolated crypts from WT but not SOCS-2 null mice, and SOCS-2 null crypts showed enhanced proliferative responses to GH and IGF-I. SOCS-2 null mice have increased intestinal weight and length. Conclusions: SOCS-2 is a GH-inducible, novel inhibitor of intestinal epithelial cell proliferation and intestinal growth.
'Mitotic chromosomes are compacted laterally by KIF4 and condensin and axially by topoisomerase IIα. Mitotic chromosome formation involves a relatively minor condensation of the chromatin volume coupled with a dramatic reorganization into the characteristic "X" shape. Here we report results of a detailed morphological analysis, which revealed that chromokinesin KIF4 cooperated in a parallel pathway with condensin complexes to promote the lateral compaction of chromatid arms. In this analysis, KIF4 and condensin were mutually dependent for their dynamic localization on the chromatid axes. Depletion of either caused sister chromatids to expand and compromised the "intrinsic structure" of the chromosomes (defined in an in vitro assay), with loss of condensin showing stronger effects. Simultaneous depletion of KIF4 and condensin caused complete loss of chromosome morphology. In these experiments,topoisomerase II? contributed to shaping mitotic chromosomes by promoting the shortening of the chromatid axes and apparently acting in opposition to the actions of KIF4 and condensins. These three proteins are major determinants in shaping the characteristic mitotic chromosome morphology.
Functional AP1 and CRE response elements in the human keratinocyte transglutaminase promoter mediating Whn suppression. Expression of keratinocyte transglutaminase (TGM1) is critical for maturation of mammalian epidermis and occurs during squamous metaplasia. Examination of the TGM1 5'-flanking region in transient transfections of human epidermal cells revealed an AP1 site ≃ 1.5 kb upstream from the transcription start site and a CRE site ≃ 0.5 kb upstream that, combined, accounted for as much as 90% of the transcriptional activity. Upon incubation with nuclear extract, three electrophoretically separable protein complexes were formed by a CRE site oligonucleotide, one of which was competed by an AP1 response element. In super-shift analysis, c-Jun and JunD formed complexes with both the AP1 and CRE sequences. The AP1 and CRE sites were found to mediate the suppressive effects of the Whn transcription factor on the activity of the TGM1 promoter. Similarly, two previously described AP1 sites mediated Whn suppression of involucrin promoter activity.
CXCR4 overexpression is associated with poor outcome in females diagnosed with Stage IV non-small cell lung cancer. Background: It has been proposed that the chemokine receptor, CXCR4, and its ligand, stromal cell-derived factor-1 (SDF-1), play a critical role in organ-specific tumor metastasis. High CXCR4 expression in resected non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) tumors is associated with poorer outcome; however, its effect on patient outcome in advanced NSCLC has not been explored. Methods: After institutional ethical approval was obtained, demographic details, clinical variables, and outcome data were collected on consecutive NSCLC patients diagnosed at the Tom Baker Cancer Centre from 2003 to 2006 (Glans-Look Lung Cancer Database). Formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded diagnostic biopsies from stage IV patients were obtained and tissue microarrays generated. CXCR4 expression within NSCLC cells was analyzed by quantitative fluorescent immunohistochemistry using the HistoRx PM-2000 platform and then correlated with clinical outcome. Results: Of 832 patients, 170 had samples suitable for tissue microarray generation and analysis. Automated immunohistochemistry for CXCR4 was successfully completed on all 170 patients. High expressors had a significantly poorer median overall survival of 2.7 months versus 5.6 months for the low expressors (p = 0.0468). This difference is driven by high-expressing females who have a median overall survival of 1.6 months versus 6.4 months for the low expressors (p = 0.006). Conclusions: CXCR4 is expressed in the majority of NSCLC tumors, and overexpression is associated with significantly poorer survival in stage IV NSCLC patients. Interestingly, this poor outcome is disproportionately represented in the female population. Our results suggest a gender-dependent difference in clinical outcome based on CXCR4 overexpression in stage IV NSCLC.
'Canine SOD1 harboring E40K or T18S mutations promotes protein aggregation without reducing the global structural stability. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive and fatal neurodegenerative disease associated with aggregation of superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) protein. More than 160 mutations in human SOD1 have been identified in familial ALS and extensively characterized in previous studies. Here, we investigated the effects of T18S and E40K mutations on protein aggregation of canine SOD1. These two mutations are exclusively found in canine degenerative myelopathy (an ALS-like neurodegenerative disease in dogs), whose phenotype is unknown at the level of protein folding. Interestingly, the T18S and E40K mutations did not alter far-UV CD spectrum, enzymatic activity, or global structural stability of canine SOD1. However, thioflavin-T assay and transmission electron microscopy analysis revealed that these mutations promote formation of fibrous aggregates, in particular in the Cu2+/Zn2+-unbound state. These evidence suggested that the T18S and E40K mutations promote protein aggregation through a unique mechanism, possibly involving destabilization of the local structure, reduction of net negative charge, or production of disulfide-linked oligomers.
Inflammation as cause for scar cancers of the lung. The molecular and cellular basis of inflammation has become a topic of great interest of late because of the association between mechanisms of inflammation and risk for cancer. Inflammatory-mediated events, such as the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), the activation of growth factors (for wound repair), and the altering of signal-transduction processes to activate cell-proliferation (to replace necrotic/apoptotic tissue cells), events that also can occur independently of inflammation, are all considered to be components of risk for a variety of cancers. Using scar cancer of the lung as an example, mechanisms of inflammation associated with recurring infections with Mycobacterium tuberculosis are discussed in the context that they may, in fact, be the major or sole cause of a cancer. Production of ROS, prostaglandins, leukotrienes, and cytokines in pulmonary tissues is greatly enhanced due to a cell-mediated immune response against macrophages infected with M. tuberculosis. These responses lead to the extensive fibrosis associated with recurring infections, possibly leading to decreased clearance of lymph and lymph-associated particles from the infected region. They also will enhance rates of cell division by inhibiting synthesis of P21, leading to enhanced progression from G0 arrest to G1 phase, from G1 to S phase, and from G2 to M phase of the cell cycle. By increasing rates of oxidative DNA damage and inhibiting apoptosis by enhancing synthesis of BCL-2, mutagenesis of progeny cells is enhanced, and these effects coupled with enhanced angiogenesis stimulated by COX-2 products lead to an environment that is highly conducive to tumorigenesis. Based on the evidence, it appears that but for an inflammatory response to recurring infections, some cases of scar cancer would not exist. By making appropriate lifestyle and dietary changes, a variety of anti-inflammatory effects can be produced, which should attenuate inflammation-induced risk for cancer.
Heparin fragments induce cervical inflammation by recruiting immune cells through Toll-like receptor 4 in nonpregnant mice. Inflammation is a hallmark in the human cervix remodelling. A possible candidate inducing the inflammatory driven ripening of the cervix is the matrix component heparan sulphate, which has been shown to be elevated in late pregnancy in the cervix and uterus. Heparin and a glycol-split low molecular weight heparin (gsHep) with low anticoagulant potency has been shown to enhance myometrial contraction and interleukin (IL)-8 production by cervical fibroblasts. The aim of this study was to investigate the mechanism by which heparin promotes cervical inflammation. Wild-type, Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), Myeloid differentiation primary response gene 88 (MyD88) and Interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3)-deficient mice were treated by deposition of gsHep into the vaginas of nonpregnant mice. To identify which cells that responded to the heparin fragments, a rhodamine fluorescent construct of gsHep was used, which initially did bind to the epithelial cells and were at later time points located in the sub-mucosa. The heparin fragments induced a strong local inflammatory response in wild-type mice shown by a rapid infiltration of neutrophils and to a lesser extent macrophages into the epithelium and the underlying extracellular matrix of the cervix. Further, a marked migration into the cervical and vaginal lumen was seen by both neutrophils and macrophages. The induced mucosal inflammation was strongly reduced in TLR4- and IRF3-deficient mice. In conclusion, our findings suggest that a TLR4/IRF3-mediated innate immune response in the cervical mucosa is induced by gsHep. This low anticoagulant heparin version, a novel TLR4 agonist, could contribute to human cervical ripening during the initiation of labour.
HIF-1α promotes NLRP3 inflammasome activation in bleomycin-induced acute lung injury. The inflammatory response is one of the most important factors in the occurrence and development of acute lung injury (ALI). Hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α) and the NOD-like receptor 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome have been demonstrated to serve an important role in the pathogenesis of ALI. The objective of the present study was to investigate whether HIF-1α could regulate activation of the NLR P3 inflammasome and its potential function and specific mechanism in bleomycin (BLM)-induced ALI. Activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome and secretion of IL-1β were detected following silencing of HIF-1α or NF-κB, respectively, in BLM-treated A549 and RLE- 6TN cells. The results demonstrated that the NLR P3 inflammasome could be activated after BLM treatment. HIF-1α and NF-κB expression significantly increased in the BLM group. The levels of NF-κB- and NLR P3 inflammasome-associated proteins, including NLR P3, apoptosis-associated speck-like protein containing CARD and caspase-1, markedly decreased after treating A549 and RLE- 6TN cells with HIF-1α small interfering RNA. Activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome was also inhibited after silencing NF-κB. Furthermore, the levels of IL- 1β markedly decreased in the cellular culture supernatants following inhibition of HIF-1α and NF-κB. Therefore, the present study indicated that HIF-1α could modulate the activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome and the secretion of IL-1β through NF-κB signaling in BLM-induced ALI. The current results improve understanding of the mechanism of ALI and may provide new ideas for identifying therapeutic targets of ALI.
Existence of a Transcription Factor for the Human HMG2 Gene Positively Related to the Level of HMG2 mRNA in the Cells. A functional gene encoding high mobility group 2 (HMG2) protein, which is an abundant eukaryotic DNA-binding protein, has been isolated. The expression of the HMG2 gene is enhanced in exponentially growing cells and in cells transformed with various viral genes and oncogenes. We attempted to identify and characterize the HMG2 gene structure and transcription factor(s) participating in the expression of the gene. Chloramphenicol acetyltransferase assays to characterize the 5'-flanking region of the human HMG2 gene revealed that the nucleotide sequences in two regions are necessary for expression of the HMG2 gene: one (-85 to +44 region) as a core promoter, and the other (-621 to -493 region) as a cis regulatory element(s). Electrophoresis mobility shift assay with a DNA fragment containing the cis regulatory element and a crude nuclear extract from HeLa cells gave several complexes. Chemical footprint and competition assays indicated that the component giving one of the major complexes recognizes a nucleotide sequence of -499 to -486 in the cis regulatory element. Chloramphenicol acetyltransferase assay indicated that the component giving the major complex is required for the effective transcription of the HMG2 gene. The binding component named HMG2TF (HMG2 transcription factor) contained a protein in apparent molecular size of 85 000, as determined by a UV cross-linking experiment. The amount of HMG2TF in the growing cells and transformed cells increased in positive relationship to the level of expression of HMG2 mRNA in the cells. These results suggest that HMG2 gene expression may be regulated by the relative amount of this transcription factor.
PD-L1 and Mismatch Repair Status in Uterine Carcinosarcomas. Uterine carcinosarcomas have few adjuvant treatment options. Programmed cell death ligand-1 (PD-L1) expression in these tumors may predict response to checkpoint inhibitor therapies. An increase in PD-L1 expression has been shown in endometrial carcinomas with mismatch repair (MMR) deficiencies; however, few studies have evaluated PD-L1 expression in uterine carcinosarcomas. We examined PD-L1 expression in 41 cases of uterine carcinosarcoma using combined positive scores (CPS) and tumor proportion scores (TPS), and correlated with MMR status, p53 expression, and epithelial histotype. In addition to confirming the diagnosis of carcinosarcoma, the epithelial components were stratified based on endometrioid versus serous histology. Thirty-three cases (80%) were positive for PD-L1, defined as a CPS score of ≥1 or a TPS score of ≥1%. Twelve cases (29%) showed high expression of PD-L1, defined as a CPS score of ≥10 or a TPS score of ≥10%. The majority of the morphologically adjudicated carcinosarcomas had a serous epithelial component (83%) rather than endometrioid (17%), which was reinforced by aberrant p53 staining predominantly within cases with serous morphology. The majority of carcinosarcomas showed at least focal PD-L1 expression, predominantly in tumor-associated immune cells. Carcinosarcomas with endometrioid morphology were significantly more likely to have high-level PD-L1 (5/7 vs. 7/34; P=0.015). MMR-deficient carcinosarcomas were also more likely to have high-level PD-L1 (2/3 vs. 10/28); however, this did not reach statistical significance (P=0.2) and overall MMR-deficiency was uncommon (3 cases, 7%). These findings suggest that PD-L1 may be additive to MMR testing as a predictive biomarker for checkpoint inhibitor vulnerability in carcinosarcomas.
PreDBA: A heterogeneous ensemble approach for predicting protein-DNA binding affinity. The interaction between protein and DNA plays an essential function in various critical natural processes, like DNA replication, transcription, splicing, and repair. Studying the binding affinity of proteins to DNA helps to understand the recognition mechanism of protein-DNA complexes. Since there are still many limitations on the protein-DNA binding affinity data measured by experiments, accurate and reliable calculation methods are necessarily required. So we put forward a computational approach in this paper, called PreDBA, that can forecast protein-DNA binding affinity effectively by using heterogeneous ensemble models. One hundred protein-DNA complexes are manually collected from the related literature as a data set for protein-DNA binding affinity. Then, 52 sequence and structural features are obtained. Based on this, the correlation between these 52 characteristics and protein-DNA binding affinity is calculated. Furthermore, we found that the protein-DNA binding affinity is affected by the DNA molecule structure of the compound. We classify all protein-DNA compounds into five classifications based on the DNA structure related to the proteins that make up the protein-DNA complexes. In each group, a stacked heterogeneous ensemble model is constructed based on the obtained features. In the end, based on the binding affinity data set, we used the leave-one-out cross-validation to evaluate the proposed method comprehensively. In the five categories, the Pearson correlation coefficient values of our recommended method range from 0.735 to 0.926. We have demonstrated the advantages of the proposed method compared to other machine learning methods and currently existing protein-DNA binding affinity prediction approach.
Development of an XBP1 agonist, HLJ2, as a potential therapeutic agent for ulcerative colitis. There is a severe lack of effective treatments for ulcerative colitis (UC), a recurrent and intractable inflammatory bowel disease. The identification of valid targets and new drugs is an urgent need. In this study, we identified the XBP-1 agonist HLJ2 as a promising treatment candidate. In an in vivo mouse model of DSS-induced colitis, HLJ2 decreased weight loss, colon contracture, disease activity index (DAI), colon mucosa damage index (CMDI) and histopathological index (HI). HLJ2 also decreased myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity and reduced production of the inflammatory cytokines TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL-6. HLJ2 improved intestinal mucosa damage induced by dextran sodium sulfate (DSS) and increased the expression of ZO-1 and claudin-1. Fecal 16s rRNA high-throughput sequencing demonstrated a significant improvement in UC intestinal dysbacteriosis in mice treated with HLJ2, including increased abundance of probiotics such as Lachnospiraceae, Prevotellaceae, and Lactobacillaceae. At the same time there was a reduction in the abundance of pathogenic or conditional pathogenic microorganisms such as Bacteroidaceae, Porphyromonadaceae, Deferribacteraceae, and Pseudomonadaceae in HLJ2-treated mice compared with untreated mice. Our results demonstrated that the XBP1 agonist HLJ2 inhibits inflammation, regulates the intestinal flora, and protects the intestinal mucosa. It is thus a potential therapeutic agent for ulcerative colitis.
The Ets family of proteins: weak modulators of gene expression in quest for transcriptional partners.. Members of the Ets family of transcriptional regulators play pivotal roles in physiological processes, such as embryonic development or immune response. The Ets family proteins possess unique regulatory features because they bind DNA as monomers and their respective activities rely more on their ability to interact with other transcription factors than on their specific binding to a cognate DNA sequence. This review focuses on such interactions and also explores dysregulated expression of the Ets proteins in human cancers.
Knockdown of REG Iα Enhances the Sensitivity to 5-Fluorouracil of Colorectal Cancer Cells via Cyclin D1/CDK4 Pathway and BAX/BCL-2 Pathways. Objective: The reverse of chemoresistance and the improvement of sensitivity to chemotherapeutic agents of colorectal cancer cells have great clinical significance and the mechanism underlying the drug resistance is still unclear. REG Iα was reported to be upregulated in colorectal cancer tissues, but the roles of chemoresistance are still unclear. Materials and Methods: The expression of REG Iα in colorectal cancer cell lines was assessed by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (Q-PCR). The expression of REG Iα in HCT116 and LOVO cells was knockdown by siRNA. The cell viability and IC50 (half maximal inhibitory concentration) values were analyzed by the CCK8 assay. The proportion of apoptosis and cell cycles were analyzed by flow cytometry. The migration potency of HCT116 and LOVO cells was analyzed by cell migration assay. The protein level of Cyclin D1, CDK4 (cyclin-dependent kinase 4), Bax and Bcl-2 were analyzed by western blot. Results: Knockdown of REG Iα enhances the sensitivity to 5-Fu of colorectal cancer cells. REG Iα knockdown promoted the cell apoptosis of HCT116 and LOVO under the 5-Fu treatment. The cell migration and cycle of colorectal cancer cells was also inhibited by REG Iα knockdown. We also found that REG Iα knockdown induced cell cycle arrest and cell apoptosis by Cyclin D1/CDK4 pathway and BAX/BCL-2 pathways. Conclusions: Knockdown of REG Iα enhances the sensitivity to 5-Fu of colorectal cancer cells via cyclin D1/CDK4 pathway and BAX/BCL-2 pathways.
Selection, transmission, and reversion of an antigen-processing cytotoxic T-lymphocyte escape mutation in human immunodeficiency virus type 1 infection. Numerous studies now support that human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) evolution is influenced by immune selection pressure, with population studies showing an association between specific HLA alleles and mutations within defined cytotoxic T-lymphocyte epitopes. Here we combine sequence data and functional studies of CD8 T-cell responses to demonstrate that allele-specific immune pressures also select for mutations flanking CD8 epitopes that impair antigen processing. In persons expressing HLA-A3, we demonstrate consistent selection for a mutation in a C-terminal flanking residue of the normally immunodominant Gag KK9 epitope that prevents its processing and presentation, resulting in a rapid decline in the CD8 T-cell response. This single amino acid substitution also lies within a second HLA-A3-restricted epitope, with the mutation directly impairing recognition by CD8 T cells. Transmission of the mutation to subjects expressing HLA-A3 was shown to prevent the induction of normally immunodominant acute-phase responses to both epitopes. However, subsequent in vivo reversion of the mutation was coincident with delayed induction of new CD8 T-cell responses to both epitopes. These data demonstrate that mutations within the flanking region of an HIV-1 epitope can impair recognition by an established CD8 T-cell response and that transmission of these mutations alters the acute-phase CD8+ T-cell response. Moreover, reversion of these mutations in the absence of the original immune pressure reveals the potential plasticity of immunologically selected evolutionary changes.
Induced transcription results in local changes in chromatin structure, replication timing, and DNA polytenization in a site of intercalary heterochromatin. In salivary gland polytene chromosomes of Drosophila melanogaster, the regions of intercalary heterochromatin are characterized by late replication, under-replication, and genetic silencing. Using Gal4/UAS system, we induced transcription of sequences adjacent to transgene insertions in the band 11A6-9. This activation resulted in a loss of "silent" and appearance of "active" epigenetic marks, recruitment of RNA polymerase II, and formation of a puff. The activated region is now early replicating and shows increased level of DNA polytenization. Notably, all these changes are restricted to the area around the inserts, whereas the rest of the band remains inactive and late replicating. Although only a short area near the insertion site is transcribed, it results in an "open" chromatin conformation in a much broader region. We conclude that regions of intercalary heterochromatin do not form stand-alone units of late replication and under-replication. Every part of such regions can be activated and polytenized independently of other parts.
Identification of two human WAVE/SCAR homologues as general actin regulatory molecules which associate with the Arp2/3 complex. WAVE/SCAR protein was identified as a protein which has similarity to WASP and N-WASP, especially in its C terminal. Recently, WAVE/SCAR protein has been shown to cooperate with the Arp2/3 complex, a nucleation core for actin polymerization in vitro. However, in spite of its general function, WAVE/SCAR expression is mainly restricted to the brain, suggesting the existence of related molecule(s). We here identified two human WAVE/SCAR homologues, which cover other organs. We named the original WAVE1 and newly identified ones WAVE2 and WAVE3. WAVE2 had a very wide distribution with strong expression in peripheral blood leukocytes and mapped on chromosome Xp11.21, next to the WASP locus. WAVE3 and WAVE1 had similar distributions. WAVE3 was strongly expressed in brain and mapped on chromosome 13q12. WAVE1 was mapped on chromosome 6q21-22. Ectopically expressed WAVE2 and WAVE3 induced actin filament clusters in a similar manner with WAVE1. These actin cluster formations were suppressed by deletion of their C-terminal VPH (verproline homology)/WH2 (WASP homology 2) domain. Further, WAVE2 and WAVE3 associate with the Arp2/3 complex as does WAVE1. Our identification of WAVE homologues suggests that WAVE family proteins have general function for regulating the actin cytoskeleton in many tissues.
The cardiac actin locus (Actc-1) is not on mouse chromosome 17 but is linked to β2-microglobulin on chromosome 2. A restriction fragment variant and recombinant inbred strains were used to show that the cardiac actin locus (Actc-1) is closely linked to β2-microglobulin (B2m) and several other loci on chromosome 2 of the mouse. Close linkage of Actc-1 and B2m in both man and mouse provides another example of a chromosomal segment that has been conserved since the divergence of the lineages leading to these two species.
Differential effects of transforming growth factor-β2 on corneal endothelial cell proliferation - A role of serum factors. Purpose: To determine the influence of serum on transforming growth factor (TGF)-β2 mediated effects on the proliferation of corneal endothelial cells (CE). Methods: Rat CE were grown in explant culture and the proliferation of CE was measured by [3H]thymidine bioassay. Subconfluent cells were synchronized in the GO (quiescent) phase of the cell cycle by serum starvation for 24 hr. Serum and [3H]thymidine were then added to the cells in the presence or absence of a physiological concentration (5 ng ml-1) of exogenous active TGF-β2. Radioactivity was measured at various time points to detect DNA synthesis. These experiments were repeated without adding serum after serum starvation. Preincubation of exogenous TGF-β2 with neutralizing antibody was used to test the cytokine specificity. Results: Without TGF-β2, a linear increase in [3H]thymidine incorporation, indicating S-phase, began approximately 16 hr after serum addition, then plateaued at approximately 24 hr. Serum promoted DNA synthesis of CE in a dose-dependent manner at concentrations of 0.5-10%. In cultures with 10% serum, TGF-β2 (0.5, 1, 5, and 20 ng ml-1) suppressed CE growth dose-dependently. The growth amplitude decreased and the time before S-phase entry, G1 phase, was prolonged to 24 hr. In culture with 1% serum, TGF-β2 (5 ng ml-1) suppressed the CE proliferation by delaying S-phase entry without suppressing growth amplitude. In cultures without serum, TGF-β2 promoted CE growth to a level similar to that of cultures supplemented with 0.5% serum. Conclusions: Responses of cultured CE to exogenous TGF-β2 depended on the concentration of serum in the medium. This result implies a possibility that in vivo serum influx through a compromised bloodocular barrier could influence the CE growth by changing the responses of these cells to TGF-β2 in aqueous humor.
CD40 is functionally expressed on human keratinocytes. The CD40/gp39 pathway is known to be an important feature of B/T cell collaboration leading to T cell-dependent activation, proliferation or differentiation of B cells. Additionally, CD40 is involved in the regulation of B cell survival and apoptosis. Recently, CD40 has been shown to be expressed functionally on nonhematopoietic cells, i.e. endothelial cells. Here, we demonstrate that human keratinocytes (KC) cultured in vitro express CD40 constitutively. The surface expression of CD40 is markedly up-regulated following stimulation with interferon (IFN)-γ, but not with tumor necrosis factor-α or interleukin (IL)-1β. This process is regulated at the CD40 mRNA level as demonstrated by Northern blot analysis. Furthermore, ligation of CD40 via soluble gp39, the CD40 ligand, enhances intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM)-1 and Bcl-x up-regulation on IFN-γ-stimulated KC, but not lymphocyte function-associated antigen (LFA)-3, B7-2, HLA-DR, or Fas expression. The release of IL-8 is also induced following CD40 ligation on KC. In psoriasis, a T-cell-mediated inflammatory skin disease, KC have a markedly enhanced expression of CD40. This expression co-localizes with the expression of ICAM-1, Bcl-x, and an influx of CD3+ T cells. These findings suggest a functional role of CD40 on KC in inflammatory skin disorders such as psoriasis and could make a therapeutic intervention by disrupting the CD40/gp39 pathway an approach to consider in these inflammatory skin diseases.
DDK Has a Primary Role in Processing Stalled Replication Forks to Initiate Downstream Checkpoint Signaling. CDC7-DBF4 kinase (DDK) initiates DNA replication in eukaryotes by activating the replicative MCM helicase. DDK has diverse and apparently conflicting roles in the replication checkpoint response in various organisms, but the underlying mechanisms are far from settled. We show that human DDK promotes limited resection of newly synthesized DNA at stalled replication forks or sites of DNA damage to initiate replication checkpoint signaling. DDK is also required for efficient fork restart and G2/M cell cycle arrest. DDK exhibits genetic interactions with the ssDNA exonuclease EXO1 and phosphorylates EXO1 in vitro. EXO1 is also required for nascent strand degradation following exposure to HU, so DDK might regulate EXO1 directly. Lastly, sublethal DDK inhibition causes various mitotic abnormalities, which is consistent with a checkpoint deficiency. In summary, DDK has a primary and previously undescribed role in the replication checkpoint to promote ssDNA accumulation at stalled forks, which is required to initiate a robust checkpoint response and cell cycle arrest to maintain genome integrity.
YY1 and NF1 both activate the human p53 promoter by alternatively binding to a composite element, and YY1 and E1A cooperate to amplify p53 promoter activity. A novel transcription factor binding element in the human p53 gene promoter has been characterized. It lies about 100 bp upstream of the major reported start site for human p53 gene transcription. On the basis of DNase I footprinting studies, electromobility shift assay patterns, sequence specificity of binding, the binding pattern of purified transcription factors, effects of specific antibodies, and methylation interference analysis we have identified the site as a composite element which can bind both YY1 and NF1 in an independent and mutually exclusive manner. The site is conserved in the human, rat, and mouse p53 promoters. The occupancy of the site varies in a tissue-specific manner. It binds principally YY1 in nuclear extracts of rat testis and spleen and NF1 in extracts of liver and prostate. This may facilitate tissue-specific control of p53 gene expression. When HeLa cells were transiently transfected with human p53 promoter-chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter constructs, a mutation in this composite element which disabled YY1 and NF1 binding caused a mean 64% reduction in basal p53 promoter activity. From mutations which selectively impaired YY1 or NF1 binding and the overexpression of YY1 or NF1 in HeLa cells we concluded that both YY1 and NF1 function as activators when bound to this site. In transient cotransfections E1A could induce the activity of the p53 promoter to a high level; 12S E1A was threefold as efficient as 13S E1A in this activity, and YY1 bound to the composite element was shown to mediate 55% of this induction. Overexpressed YY1 was shown to be able to synergistically activate the p53 promoter with E1A when not specifically bound to DNA. Deletion of an N-terminal domain of E1A, known to be required for direct E1A-YY1 interaction and E1A effects mediated through transcriptional activator p300, blocked the E1A induction of p53 promoter activity.
p16 expression differentiates high-risk gastrointestinal stromal tumor and predicts poor outcome. Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) are characterized by alterations in genes involved in cell cycle regulation. Although p16 (INK4A) have been extensively investigated in GISTs, there are still discrepancies regarding its prognostic value. Therefore, we evaluated the clinical occurrence, diagnostic and prognostic value of p16 staining in GIST. One hundred one patients (54 women and 47 men) with a mean age of 64.1 years (range, 17-94 years) were surgically treated for a GIST within a 10-year period. Of these patients, 28 (28%) were affected by metastases (mean follow-up, 4.5 years). In 36 patients (36%), GIST occurred coincidentally with other malignancies. Expression of c-kit was confirmed in 97 GIST patients (96%). In patients with high-risk GIST, the expression of p16 expression was highly predictive for poor prognosis, i.e., the development of recurrence or metastases (P = .006) and poor survival (P = .004). In addition, the expression of p16 was highly predictive for reduction of the survival in patients who were affected by metastases or recurrence (P = .041). The disease-specific and disease-free 1-, 3-, and 5-year survival rate was 96%, 90%, and 85% and 81%, 77%, and 72%, respectively. Primary tumor state, tumor size, and high-risk classification were confirmed as relevant predictors for unfavorable prognosis in GIST (P < .001). Our results indicate that in high-risk GIST and in patients with recurrence or metastases, the expression of p16 is highly predictive for poor outcome.
TRIM29 negatively controls antiviral immune response through targeting STING for degradation. Innate immune system is armed by several lines of pattern recognition receptors to sense various viral infection and to initiate antiviral immune response. This process is under a tight control and the negative feedback induced by infection and/or inflammation is critical to maintain immune homoeostasis and to prevent autoimmune disorders, however, the molecular mechanism is not fully understood. Here we report TRIM29, a ubiquitin E3 ligase, functions as an inducible negative regulator of innate immune response triggered by DNA virus and cytosolic DNA. DNA virus and cytosolic DNA stimulation induce TRIM29 expression robustly in macrophages and dendritic cells, although the basal level of TRIM29 is undetectable in those cells. TRIM29 deficiency elevates IFN-I and proinflammatory cytokine production upon viral DNA and cytosolic dsDNA stimulation. Consistently, in vivo experiments show that TRIM29-deficient mice are more resistant to HSV-1 infection than WT controls, indicated by better survival rate and reduced viral load in organs. Mechanism studies suggest that STING-TBK1-IRF3 signaling pathway in TRIM29 KO cells is significantly enhanced and the degradation of STING is impaired. Furthermore, we identify that TRIM29 targets STING for K48 ubiquitination and degradation. This study reveals TRIM29 as a crucial negative regulator in immune response to DNA virus and cytosolic DNA, preventing potential damage caused by overcommitted immune responses.
Simple hemorrhage induces tissue factor mRNA in the liver. Thrombogenic responses are sometimes seen after a large hemorrhage, but the precise mechanisms whereby this phenomenon occurs still remain unknown. We recently showed that plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 rises after a 20- ml/kg hemorrhage in rats and suggested that this change may be one of the contributing factors to the thrombogenic responses after a large hemorrhage. In this study, we set out to detect the changes on the coagulation side, that is, the changes in whole blood clotting time and the mRNA of tissue factor (TF), which is the primary initiator of the clotting cascade. The rats were all bled (20 ml/kg) 3 days after cannulation. The whole blood time was measured by the Lee-White method. Changes in the TF mRNA were detected in the liver by high-performance liquid chromatography after reverse transcription and polymerase chain reaction using glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase as an external standard. A 20-ml/kg hemorrhage significantly shortened the whole blood clotting time and significantly increased the TR mRNA in the liver at 1, 2, and 4h in comparison to the nonhemorrhage controls. These results indicate that a simple hemorrhage without tissue trauma can induce hypercoagulability and suggest that the induction of TF might be involved in this phenomenon.
Molecular basis for SMC rod formation and its dissolution upon DNA binding. SMC condensin complexes are central modulators of chromosome superstructure in all branches of life. Their SMC subunits form a long intramolecular coiled coil, which connects a constitutive "hinge" dimerization domain with an ATP-regulated "head" dimerization module. Here, we address the structural arrangement of the long coiled coils in SMC complexes. We unequivocally show that prokaryotic Smc-ScpAB, eukaryotic condensin, and possibly also cohesin form rod-like structures, with their coiled coils being closely juxtaposed and accurately anchored to the hinge. Upon ATP-induced binding of DNA to the hinge, however, Smc switches to a more open configuration. Our data suggest that a long-distance structural transition is transmitted from the Smc head domains to regulate Smc-ScpAB\'s association with DNA. These findings uncover a conserved architectural theme in SMC complexes, provide a mechanistic basis for Smc\'s dynamic engagement with chromosomes, and offer a molecular explanation for defects in Cornelia de Lange syndrome.
Compound heterozygosity for the C677T and A1298C mutations of the MTHFR gene in a case of hyperhomocysteinemia with recurrent deep thrombosis at young age.. We report a case of a young woman with an extensive, recurrent deep vein thrombosis (DVT) diagnosed by CT scan and duplex ultrasound examination. All blood investigations for etiology of recurrent DVT were normal except for serum homocysteine level, which was mildly increased. No other thrombophilic factors could be found. The three main causes of hyperhomocysteinemia are genetic defects, nutritional deficiencies and insufficient elimination. In our case a genetic defect for one of the key enzymes of homocysteine metabolism was found to be the underlying cause. Oral anticoagulation and supplementation with pyridoxine, cyanocobalamine and folate was recommended. Whether therapy with B vitamins and folate can substantially reduce the recurrence of venous thromboembolic disease remains to be established.
Phosphate excretion and phosphate transporter messenger RNA in uremic rats treated with phosphonoformic acid. The prevention of phosphate retention in chronic renal disease may reduce both renal osteodystrophy and disease progression. We evaluated the expression of the sodium-dependent phosphate transporter, NaPi-2, and the response to phosphonoformic acid (PFA) in rats with 5/6 nephrectomy-induced renal failure. Partial nephrectomy resulted in a significant proteinuria and reduced renal function. In addition, there was an ~50% reduction in the expression of NaPi-2 mRNA. Treatment of rats for 48 hr with PFA (0.6% in glucose drinking fluid) had no effect on NaPi-2 mRNA; however, PFA resulted in a significant increase in fractional phosphate excretion in both normal (7 ± 0.5% vs. 3 ± 0.2%) and uremic (60 ± 4% vs. 36 ± 4%) rats. Plasma phosphate concentration was higher in uremic rats (2.5 ± 0.1 mM) compared with normal rats (1.9 ± 0.04 mM) but not in uremic rats treated with PFA (2.1 ± 0.04 mM). These data suggest that PFA can increase renal phosphate excretion independent of changes in phosphate transporter expression and prevent phosphate retention.
The B29 (immunoglobulin β-chain) gene is a genetic target for early B- cell factor. Early B-cell factor (EBF) is a transcription factor suggested as essential for early B-lymphocyte development by findings in mice where the coding gene has been inactivated by homologous disruption. This makes the identification of genetic targets for this transcription factor pertinent for the understanding of early B-cell development. The lack of B29 transcripts, coding for the β subunit of the B-cell receptor complex, in pro-B cells from EBF-deficient mice suggested that B29 might be a genetic target for EBF. We here present data suggesting that EBF interacts with three independent sites within the mouse B29 promoter. Furthermore, ectopic expression of EBF in HeLa cells activated a B29 promoter-controlled reporter construct 13-fold and induced a low level of expression from the endogenous B29 gene. Finally, mutations in the EBF binding sites diminished B29 promoter activity in pre-B cells while the same mutations did not have as striking an effect on the promoter function in B-cell lines of later differentiation stages. These data suggest that the B29 gene is a genetic target for EBF in early B-cell development.
Rat metallothionein-1 structural gene and three pseudogenes, one of which contains 5'-regulatory sequences. As shown by Southern blot analysis, the metallotionein-1 (MT-1) genes in rats comprise a multigene family. We present the sequence of the MT-1 structural gene and compare its features with other metallothionein genes. Three MT-1 pseudogenes which we sequenced apparently arose by reverse transcription of processed mRNA transcripts. Two of these, MT-1ψc, are retrogenes which derive from the MT-1 mRNA, having diverged from the MT-1 gene 6.9 and 2.6 million years ago, respectively. The third, MT-1ψb, differs from the MT-1 cDNA by only three nucleotide alterations. Surprisingly, MT-1ψb also preserves sequence homology for 142 base pairs 5' to the transcription initiation site of the parent gene; it contains a promoter sequence sufficient for specifying metal ion induction. We identified, by S1 nuclease mapping, an RNA polymerase II initiation site 432 base pairs 5' of the MT-1 transcription initiation site of the MT-1 structural gene which could explain the formation of the mRNA precursor to this pseudogene. We were unable to detect MT-1ψb transcripts, either in liver tissue or after transfection. We conclude that the absence of detectable transcripts from this pseudogene is due to either a reduced level of transcription or the formation of unstable transcripts as a consequence of the lack of a consensus sequence normally found 3' of transcription termination in the MT-1 structural gene.
Expression of inducible 6-phosphofructo-2-kinase/fructose-2,6- bisphosphatase/PFKFB3 isoforms in adipocytes and their potential role in glycolytic regulation. 6-Phosphofructo-2-kinase/fructose-2,6-bisphosphatase (PFK-2/FBPase) catalyzes the synthesis and degradation of fructose 2,6-bisphosphate (F2,6BP), which is a powerful activator of 6-phosphofructo-1-kinase, the rate-limiting enzyme of glycolysis. Four genes encode PFK-2/FBPase (PFKFB1-4), and an inducible isoform (iPFK-2/PFKFB3) has been found to mediate F2,6BP production in proliferating cells. We have investigated the role of iPFK-2/PFKFB3 and related isoforms in the regulation of glycolysis in adipocytes. Human visceral fat cells express PFKFB3 mRNA, and three alternatively spliced isoforms of iPFK-2/PFKFB3 are expressed in the epididymal fat pad of the mouse. Forced expression of the iPFK-2/PFKFB3 in COS-7 cells resulted in increased glucose uptake and cellular F2,6BP content. Prolonged insulin treatment of 3T3-L1 adipocytes led to reduced PFKFB3 mRNA expression, and epididymal fat pads from db/db mice also showed decreased expression of PFKFB3 mRNA. Finally, antiphospho-iPFK-2(Ser461) Western blotting revealed strong reactivity in insulin-treated 3T3-L1 adipocyte, suggesting that insulin induces the phosphorylation of PFKFB3 protein. These data expand the role of these structurally unique iPFK-2/PFKFB3 isoforms in the metabolic regulation of adipocytes.
Smad ubiquitination regulatory factor-2 controls gap junction intercellular communication by modulating endocytosis and degradation of connexin43. Gap junctions consist of arrays of intercellular channels that enable adjacent cells to communicate both electrically and metabolically. Gap junction channels are made of a family of integral membrane proteins called connexins, of which the best-studied member is connexin43. Gap junctions are dynamic plasma membrane domains, and connexin43 has a high turnover rate in most tissue types. However, the mechanisms involved in the regulation of connexin43 endocytosis and transport to lysosomes are still poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate by live-cell imaging analysis that treatment of cells with 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate (TPA) induces endocytosis of subdomains of connexin43 gap junctions. The internalized, connexin43-enriched vesicles were found to fuse with early endosomes, which was followed by transport of connexin43 to the lumen of early endosomes. The HECT E3 ubiquitin ligase smad ubiquitination regulatory factor-2 (Smurf2) was found to be recruited to connexin43 gap junctions in response to TPA treatment. Depletion of Smurf2 by small interfering RNA resulted in enhanced levels of connexin43 gap junctions between adjacent cells and increased gap junction intercellular communication. Smurf2 depletion also counteracted the TPA-induced endocytosis and degradation of connexin43. Collectively, these data identify Smurf2 as a novel regulator of connexin43 gap junctions.
DNA damage by bromate: Mechanism and consequences. Exposure of mammalian cells to bromate (BrO3-) generates oxidative DNA modifications, in particular 7,8-dihydro-8-oxo-guanine (8-oxoG). The damaging mechanism is quite unique, since glutathione, which is protective against most oxidants and alkylating agents, mediates a metabolic activation, while bromate itself does not react directly with DNA. Neither enzymes nor transition metals are required as catalysts in the activation. The ultimate DNA damaging species has not yet been established, but experiments under cell-free conditions suggest that neither molecular bromine nor reactive oxygen species such as superoxide, hydrogen peroxide or singlet oxygen are involved. Rather bromine radicals (Br) or oxides (BrO, BrO2) might be responsible. Compared to hypochlorite (ClO-), bromate is much less cytotoxic, probably because the former halite efficiently reacts with proteins and other vitally important cellular constituents. In consequence, oxidative DNA damage and the induction of mutations and micronuclei is easily detectable at non-cytotoxic concentrations of bromate, while DNA damage by hypochlorite is observed only at cytotoxic concentrations and follows a non-linear (hockey-stick-like) dose response.
Mechanical stretch activates signaling events for protein translation initiation and elongation in C2C12 myoblasts. It has been proposed that mechanically induced tension is the critical factor in the induction of muscle hypertrophy. However, the molecular mechanisms involved in this process are still under investigation. In the present study, the effect of mechanical stretch on intracellular signaling for protein translation initiation and elongation was studied in C2C12 myoblasts. Cells were grown on a silicone elastomer chamber and subjected to 30-min of 5 or 15% constant static or cyclic (60 cycles/min) uniaxial stretch. Western blot analyses revealed that p70 S6 kinase (p70S6K) and eukaryotic elongation factor 2 (eEF2), which are the markers for translation initiation and peptide chain elongation, respectively, were activated by both static and cyclic stretch. The magnitude of activation was greater in response to the 15% cyclic stretch. Cyclic stretch also increased the phosphorylation of MAP kinases (p38 MAPK, ERK1/2 and JNK). However, the pharmacological inhibition of MAP kinases did not block the stretch-induced activation of p70S6K and eEF2. An inhibitor of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) blocked the stretch-induced phosphorylation of p70S6K but did not affect the eEF2 activation. A broad-range tyrosine kinase inhibitor, genistein, blocked the stretch-induced activation of p70S6K and eEF2, whereas Src tyrosine kinase and Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitors did not. These results suggest that the stretch-induced activation of protein translation initiation and elongation in mouse myoblast cell lines is mediated by tyrosine kinase(s), except for Src kinase or JAK.
Association of ERCC5 Genetic Polymorphisms With Cirrhosis and Liver Cancer. Introduction: To explore association of excision repair cross-complementing 5 (ERCC5) genetic polymorphisms with cirrhosis and liver cancer. Methods: A total of 365 patients were enrolled, including control group (n = 133), cirrhosis group (n = 122), and liver cancer group (n = 110). The genotyping of ERCC5 rs2016073, rs751402, rs2094258, rs2296147, and rs2296148 was measured by using MassARRAY iPLEX technology. Results: There were no significant differences in gender and drinking among the 3 groups (P >.05). There were significant differences among the 3 groups in both age-group ≤60 and >60 subgroup patients. Locus rs2016073 was significantly different among 3 groups, and genotype GG (n = 0) was not observed in liver cancer group. As for locus rs751402, there were significant differences among 3 groups, and genotype AA (n = 0) was not observed in liver cancer group. As for locus rs2094258, there were no significant differences among 3 groups. Locus rs2296147 showed no significant differences among 3 groups (P >.05), but genotype CC was not observed in liver cancer group (n = 0). As for locus rs2296148, there were significant differences among 3 groups, and genotype TC (n = 0) was not observed in cirrhosis group. Regression analysis found locus rs751402 had significant difference between control group and cirrhosis group, patients with genotype AA and genotype GG were more likely to have cirrhosis than those with genotype GA. Conclusion: Our study suggested that genotype AA, genotype GG of ERCC5 locus rs751402, and genotype TC of locus rs2296148 may be important targets for cirrhosis, while ERCC5 polymorphisms (rs2016073 and ERCC5 polymorphisms, rs2016073 with genotype GG, and rs751402 with genotype AA) may be potential markers for liver cancer.
The role of nuclear hormone receptors in cutaneous wound repair. The cutaneous wound repair process involves balancing a dynamic series of events ranging from inflammation, oxidative stress, cell migration, proliferation, survival and differentiation. A complex series of secreted trophic factors, cytokines, surface and intracellular proteins are expressed in a temporospatial manner to restore skin integrity after wounding. Impaired initiation, maintenance or termination of the tissue repair processes can lead to perturbed healing, necrosis, fibrosis or even cancer. Nuclear hormone receptors (NHRs) in the cutaneous environment regulate tissue repair processes such as fibroplasia and angiogenesis. Defects in functional NHRs and their ligands are associated with the clinical phenotypes of chronic non-healing wounds and skin endocrine disorders. The functional relationship between NHRs and skin niche cells such as epidermal keratinocytes and dermal fibroblasts is pivotal for successful wound closure and permanent repair. The aim of this review is to delineate the cutaneous effects and cross-talk of various nuclear receptors upon injury towards functional tissue restoration.
Down-regulation of PKCζ in renal cell carcinoma and its clinicopathological implications.. Metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is highly resistant to systemic chemotherapy. Unfortunately, nearly all patients die of the metastatic and chemoresistant RCC. Recent studies have shown the atypical PKCζ is an important regulator of tumorigenesis. However, the correlation between PKCζ expression and the clinical outcome in RCC patients is unclear. We examined the level of PKCζ expression in human RCC. PKCζ mRNA and protein expressions were examined by real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and immunohistochemistry (IHC) respectively in RCC tissues of 144 patients. Cellular cytotoxicity and proliferation were assessed by MTT. PKCζ expression was significantly higher in normal than in cancerous tissues (P<0.0001) by real-time PCR and IHC. Similarly, PKCζ expression was down-regulated in four renal cancer cell lines compared to immortalized benign renal tubular cells. Interestingly, an increase of PKCζ expression was associated with the elevated tumor grade (P=0.04), but no such association was found in TNM stage (P=0.13). Tumors with higher PKCζ expression were associated with tumor size (P=0.048). Expression of higher PKCζ found a poor survival in patients with high tumor grade. Down-regulation of PKCζ showed the significant chemoresistance in RCC cell lines. Inactivation of PKCζ expression enhanced cellular resistance to cisplatin and paclitaxel, and proliferation in HK-2 cells by specific PKCζ siRNA and inhibitor. PKCζ expression was associated with tumorigenesis and chemoresistance in RCC.
Conformational isomerism, rotational allomerism, and divergent evolution in immunoglobulin light chains.. Immunoglobulin light chains are examples of single polypeptide chains synthesized under the control of two genes. The three-dimensional structure of a human (Mcg) lambda-type chain (Bence-Jones) dimer supports the hypothesis of a common primordial gene for the amino ("variable" or V) and carboxyl ("constant" or C) halves of each monomer. However, sequence homologies have been obscurred by divergent evolution of the V and C regions ("domains"). The types of evolutionary changes that have occurred in the domain can be surmised by a comparison of the sequences, using the three-dimensional structures as a basis for alignment. Despite substantial differences in sequences, the hydrophobic character of key internal sites has been maintained in each domain. Regions present in only one domain are situated in position appropriate for their functions, but not deleterious to the general structural integrity of a common fold. The divergence of the V and C domains can be interpreted in terms of rotational allomerism. The cylinders of beta-pleated sheets have rotated in such a way that homologous regions in the two domains perform different functions in their interactions with a second molecule of light or heavy chain. These regions include complementarity-determining sites for antigen binding in the V domains and crossover sites stabilizing dimer formation in the C domains. Differences in surface properties between the V1-V2 and C1-C2 dimeric modules may partially explain why the V regions have been implicated in the formation of amyloid fibrils and in the characteristic thermal behavior of Bence-Jones proteins.
An epitranscriptomic mechanism underlies selective mRNA translation remodelling in melanoma persister cells. Cancer persister cells tolerate anticancer drugs and serve as the founders of acquired resistance and cancer relapse. Here we show that a subpopulation of BRAFV600 mutant melanoma cells that tolerates exposure to BRAF and MEK inhibitors undergoes a reversible remodelling of mRNA translation that evolves in parallel with drug sensitivity. Although this process is associated with a global reduction in protein synthesis, a subset of mRNAs undergoes an increased efficiency in translation. Inhibiting the eIF4A RNA helicase, a component of the eIF4F translation initiation complex, abrogates this selectively increased translation and is lethal to persister cells. Translation remodelling in persister cells coincides with an increased N6-methyladenosine modification in the 5′-untranslated region of some highly translated mRNAs. Combination of eIF4A inhibitor with BRAF and MEK inhibitors effectively inhibits the emergence of persister cells and may represent a new therapeutic strategy to prevent acquired drug resistance.
Hepatic expression profiling identifies steatosis-independent and steatosis-driven advanced fibrosis genes. Chronic liver disease (CLD) is associated with tissue-destructive fibrosis. Considering that common mechanisms drive fibrosis across etiologies, and that steatosis is an important cofactor for pathology, we performed RNA sequencing on liver biopsies of patients with different fibrosis stages, resulting from infection with hepatitis C virus (HCV) (with or without steatosis) or fatty liver disease. In combination with enhanced liver fibrosis score correlation analysis, we reveal a common set of genes associated with advanced fibrosis, as exemplified by those encoding the transcription factor ETS-homologous factor (EHF) and the extracellular matrix protein versican (VCAN). We identified 17 fibrosis-associated genes as candidate EHF targets and demonstrated that EHF regulates multiple fibrosis-associated genes, including VCAN, in hepatic stellate cells. Serum VCAN levels were also elevated in advanced fibrosis patients. Comparing biopsies from patients with HCV with or without steatosis, we identified a steatosis-enriched gene set associated with advanced fibrosis, validating follistatin-like protein 1 (FSTL1) as an exemplar of this profile. In patients with advanced fibrosis, serum FSTL1 levels were elevated in those with steatosis (versus those without). Liver Fstl1 mRNA levels were also elevated in murine CLD models. We thus reveal a common gene signature for CLD-associated liver fibrosis and potential biomarkers and/or targets for steatosis-associated liver fibrosis.
'Enhanced Function of Induced Pluripotent Stem Cell-Derived Endothelial Cells Through ESM1 Signaling. The mortality rate for (cardio)-vascular disease is one of the highest in the world, so a healthy functional endothelium is of outmost importance against vascular disease. In this study, human induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells were reprogrammed from 1 ml blood of healthy donors and subsequently differentiated into endothelial cells (iPS-ECs) with typical EC characteristics. This research combined iPS cell technologies and next-generation sequencing to acquire an insight into the transcriptional regulation of iPS-ECs. We identified endothelial cell-specific molecule 1 (ESM1) as one of the highest expressed genes during EC differentiation, playing a key role in EC enrichment and function by regulating connexin 40 (CX40) and eNOS. Importantly, ESM1 enhanced the iPS-ECs potential to improve angiogenesis and neovascularisation in in vivo models of angiogenesis and hind limb ischemia. These findings demonstrated for the first time that enriched functional ECs are derived through cell reprogramming and ESM1 signaling, opening the horizon for drug screening and cell-based therapies for vascular diseases. Therefore, this study showcases a new approach for enriching and enhancing the function of induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cell-derived ECs from a very small amount of blood through ESM1 signaling, which greatly enhances their functionality and increases their therapeutic potential.
Repurposing screen identifies Amlodipine as an inducer of PD-L1 degradation and antitumor immunity. Cancer cell expression of PD-L1 leads to T cells exhaustion by transducing co-inhibitory signal, and further understanding the regulation of PD-L1 in cancer cells may provide additional therapeutic strategies. Here by drug repurposing screen, we identified amlodipine as a potent inhibitor of PD-L1 expression in cancer cells. Further survey of calcium-associated pathways revealed calpain-dependent stabilization of the PD-L1 protein. Intracellular calcium delivered an operational signal to calpain-dependent Beclin-1 cleavage, blocking autophagic degradation of PD-L1 accumulated on recycling endosome (RE). Blocking calcium flux by amlodipine depleted PD-L1 expression and increased CD8+ T-cell infiltration in tumor tissues but not in myocardium, causing dose-dependent tumor suppression in vivo. Rescuing PD-L1 expression eliminated the effects of amlodipine, suggesting the PD-L1-dependent effect of amlodipine. These results reveal a calcium-dependent mechanism controlling PD-L1 degradation, and highlight calcium flux blockade as a potential strategy for combinatorial immunotherapy.
Histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors and regulation of TRAIL-induced apoptosis. Evasion of apoptosis represents a key mechanism leading to treatment resistance of human cancers. Abnormal regulation of chromatin remodeling has been implied in tumorigenesis as well as treatment resistance. Acetylation of histones represents one of the key posttranslational modifications that contribute to the regulation of chromatin remodeling. Histone acetylation is governed by the balance between enzymes that put acetyl groups on histone tails or, alternatively, remove them. Since a disturbed regulation of histone acetylation plays an important role in cancer formation and progression, a variety of histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors have been developed in recent years to target aberrant HDAC activity. HDAC inhibitors also represent a promising strategy to lower the threshold of cancer cells for apoptosis induction. For example, synergistic induction of apoptosis has been documented for the concomitant use of HDAC inhibitors together with the death receptor ligand TRAIL in a panel of human cancers. Understanding the molecular mechanism that mediates this synergistic drug interaction will be critical to further optimize this approach in order to successfully translate it into a clinical setting.
Identification and characterization of a phosphorylation-activated, cyclic AMP and Ca2+-independent protein kinase in the brain.. A cyclic AMP and calcium-independent protein kinase has been identified and purified from pig brain to near homogeneity. This independent protein kinase was isolated in an inactive form, and activation required ATP and Mg2+. On sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, the purified enzyme contains 1 subunit with a molecular mass of about 36 kDa. Although there was no significant phosphorylation of phosphorylase, phosphorylase b kinase, casein, phosvitin, and protamine, this kinase was found to be very active toward myelin basic protein and histones H1, 2A, and 2B. Trypsinolysis completely destroyed the kinase activity, indicating that this is not a protease-activated protein kinase. More interesting, this cAMP and calcium-independent protein kinase can be regulated by its state of phosphorylation. In its non-phosphorylated state, the kinase was essentially inactive but could be fully activated when the enzyme was phosphorylated up to a 1:1 molar ratio. Conversely, partial dephosphorylation of the phosphorylated enzyme was associated with a time-dependent decrease in the kinase activity and a loss of 32P. All the results taken together point out that this kinase is distinguished from all the reported protein kinases and may represent a previously undiscovered protein kinase. The results also provide initial evidence that a cascade activation mechanism may possibly be involved in the regulation of a protein kinase activity which is independent of cAMP and calcium.
Antiproliferative effect of SOCS-1 through the suppression of STAT3 and p38 MAPK activation in gastric cancer cells. Inflammation is a crucial driving force in the development of gastric cancers (GCs). Accordingly, persistent activation of STAT3, a transcription factor pivotal in regulating both inflammation and oncogenesis, is often detected in GC, although its mechanism remains elusive. Suppressor of cytokine signaling-1 (SOCS-1) is a negative regulator of proinflammatory cytokine signaling and SOCS-1 gene methylation is frequently detected in various cancers including GC. However, the significance of SOCS-1 methylation in GC cells remains unexplored. Our study is undertaken to evaluate the role of SOCS-1 in GC cell proliferation and its effect on signaling pathways in GC cells. Among five GC cell lines, SOCS-1 gene was methylated in all cell lines and constitutive STAT3 phosphorylation with elevated endogenous IL-6 production was detected in two cell lines (NUGC-3 and AGS). Unexpectedly, anti-IL-6R antibody inhibited neither cell proliferation nor STAT3 phosphorylation in NUGC-3 and AGS. In contrast, enforced SOCS-1 expression by adenoviral vector (AdSOCS-1) markedly suppressed STAT3 phosphorylation and proliferation of NUGC-3 and AGS cells in vitro. Interestingly, the antiproliferative effect of SOCS-1 was attributable not only to the inhibition of STAT3 but also to that of p38 MAPK activity, and chemical inhibitors of JAK/STAT and p38 MAPK signaling effectively suppressed proliferation of these GC cells. Furthermore, treatment with AdSOCS-1 in vivo significantly suppressed GC proliferation in a xenograft model. These results suggest that SOCS-1 gene methylation is a critical step in the development of GC, and enforced expression of SOCS-1 may represent a novel therapeutic approach for the treatment of GC.
A rho-associated protein kinase: Differentially distributed in limbal and corneal epithelia. PURPOSE. The authors have developed monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) to characterize the sequential biochemical changes in corneal epithelial cells after they differentiate from stem cells, located in the limbus, and migrate centripetally to follow the pathway of terminal differentiation. The purpose of this study was to identify a protein (recognized by mAb HE1/11f) with increased expression associated with the transition of the limbal epithelium to corneal epithelium. METHODS. The distribution and identification of the protein(s) were performed using an indirect immunohistochemical staining technique and a western blot analysis, respectively. A rabbit corneal epithelial cDNA library, constructed in the Uni-Zap XR vector, was screened with mAb HE1/11F to select cDNA clones expressing polypeptide(s) recognized by this mAb. Additional overlapping cDNA clones were obtained from a primer extension cDNA library to determine the sequence of the complete open reading frame encoding the protein recognized by mAb HE1/11F. RESULTS. Rabbit corneal epithelium exhibited strong immunostaining with mAb HE1/11F, however, the limbal epithelial cells stained weakly. HE1/11F recognized 160kDa (HEBM1) and 100-kDa (HEBM2) polypeptides in the corneal epithelial extracts. The amino acid sequence of the protein deduced from the nucleotide sequence of the cDNA exhibited a close homology to that of a RhoA (Ras-related small GTPase)- associated serine-threonine kinase (ROCK-I or Rho-associated coiled-coil kinase). A 160kDa RhoA-binding polypeptide with a molecular mass similar to that of HEBM1 and ROCK-I was detected in the corneal epithelial extracts. These findings strongly suggested that HEBM1 was rabbit ROCK-I. The identity of HEBM1 was further confirmed from the reactivity of mAb HE1/11F with ROCK- I immunoprecipitated from rabbit corneal epithelial extracts using anti- ROCK-I antibodies. CONCLUSIONS. The increased expression of a protein identified as ROCK-I from cDNA analyses is associated with rabbit corneal epithelial differentiation and transition from the limbal to corneal surface. Therefore, a RhoA signaling pathway is likely to be associated with corneal epithelial differentiation (maturation). A close homology among the cDNA se- quences of rabbit, mouse, rat, and human ROCK-I indicates that this RhoA- associated kinase is a well-conserved protein.
The E1B transcription map of the enteric adenovirus type 41. Enteric adenovirus type 41 (Ad41) is defective for growth in conventional established cell lines. Ad41 is dependent on the Ads early regions E1A/E1B since it cannot grow in HEK cells but only in 293 HEK cells transformed by Ad5 E1 region. However, Hep-2 cells have also been shown to support the growth of Ad41 to some extent. The nucleotide sequence of the E1B region of the Ad41 strain D389 has been determined. When compared to the corresponding region of the Ad41 prototype strain (Tak) the degree of homology in the DNA sequences was close to 100%. The mRNAs from the E1B region of the Ad41 strain D389 have been studied by Northern blot, primer extension, and polymerase chain reaction-cDNA analysis. E1B transcripts corresponding to Ad2 14 S, 22 S, and 9 S mRNAs were identified but no 13 S mRNA equivalent was detected, a pattern similar to that seen in the Ad40 and Adl2 transcription maps. However, the Ad41 E1B 14S mRNA equivalent has one additional small exon of 23 nucleotides, created by a donor and an acceptor splice site located at positions not seen in other E1B transcripts of human adenoviruses analyzed so far. The coding potential for E1B 19K, 55K, and 15K proteins and for pIX is retained in the Ad41 transcripts. In contrast to other adenoviruses, except for the closely related Ad40, the ORF of pIX starts in the intron of the 22 S mRNA.
Expanding the phenotype associated to KMT2A variants: overlapping clinical signs between Wiedemann–Steiner and Rubinstein–Taybi syndromes. Lysine-specific methyltransferase 2A (KMT2A) is responsible for methylation of histone H3 (K4H3me) and contributes to chromatin remodeling, acting as “writer” of the epigenetic machinery. Mutations in KMT2A were first reported in Wiedemann–Steiner syndrome (WDSTS). More recently, KMT2A variants have been described in probands with a specific clinical diagnosis comprised in the so-called chromatinopathies. Such conditions, including WDSTS, are a group of overlapping disorders caused by mutations in genes coding for the epigenetic machinery. Among them, Rubinstein–Taybi syndrome (RSTS) is mainly caused by heterozygous pathogenic variants in CREBBP or EP300. In this work, we used next generation sequencing (either by custom-made panel or by whole exome) to identify alternative causative genes in individuals with a RSTS-like phenotype negative to CREBBP and EP300 mutational screening. In six patients we identified different novel unreported variants in KMT2A gene. The identified variants are de novo in at least four out of six tested individuals and all of them display some typical RSTS phenotypic features but also WDSTS specific signs. This study reinforces the concept that germline variants affecting the epigenetic machinery lead to a shared molecular effect (alteration of the chromatin state) determining superimposable clinical conditions.
Circulating long non-coding RNA GAS5 and SOX2OT as potential biomarkers for diagnosis and prognosis of non-small cell lung cancer. Early diagnosis of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is essential for patient treatment and prognosis. Long noncoding RNA (lncRNA) have potential roles in tumor initiation and differentiation. The objective of this study was to investigate whether the circulating lncRNA, growth arrest-specific transcript 5 (GAS5) and SOX2 overlapping transcript (SOX2OT), could be used as noninvasive biomarkers for NSCLC diagnosis. Moreover, we aimed at evaluating the association between lncRNA and the clinicopathological features of NSCLC in order to predict the cancer prognosis. The results showed significant downregulation of GAS5 expression and upregulation of SOX2OT in NSCLC patients compared with controls (P\xa0<\xa00.001). Furthermore, the expression level of GAS5 was declined in stage IV of NSCLC, but SOX2OT expression was increased sharply in stages III and IV. The expression levels of lncRNAs were used to distinguish NSCLC patients from control with an area under curve of 0.81 (sensitivity 82.5% and specificity 80%) for GAS5 and 0.73 (sensitivity 76.3% and specificity 78.6%) for SOX2OT. The combination of GAS5 and SOX2OT showed differentiation NSCLC patients from controls with increased sensitivity (83.8) and specificity (81.4). In conclusion, the newly developed diagnostic panel involving of circulating GAS5 and SOX2OT could be perfect biomarker for diagnosis and prognosis of NSCLC.
Estrogen, progesterone and hippocampal plasticity in rodent models. Accumulating evidence indicates that ovarian hormones regulate a wide variety of non-reproductive functions in the central nervous system by interacting with several molecular and cellular processes. A growing animal literature using both adult and aged rodent models indicates that 17β-estradiol (E2), the most potent of the biologically relevant estrogens, and progesterone (P4), a major naturally occurring progestogen, facilitate some forms of learning and memory, in particular those that involve hippocampal-dependent tasks. A recently developed triple-transgenic mouse (3xTg-AD) has been widely used as an animal model of Alzheimer's disease (AD), as this mouse exhibits an age-related and progressive neuropathological phenotype that includes both plaque and tangle pathology mainly restricted to hippocampus, amygdala and cerebral cortex. In this report, we examine recent studies that compare the effects of ovarian hormones on synaptic transmission and synaptic plasticity in adult and aged rodents. A better understanding of the non-reproductive functions of ovarian hormones has farreaching implications for hormone therapy to maintain health and function within the nervous system throughout aging.
'Effects of ADIPOQ polymorphisms on PCOS risk: A meta-analysis. Background: Whether adiponectin (ADIPOQ) polymorphisms are associated with the risk of polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) remain controversial. Therefore, we performed this study to better explore correlations between ADIPOQ polymorphisms and PCOS risk. Methods: Literature retrieve was conducted in PubMed, Medline and Embase. Odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated. Results: Eighteen studies were enrolled for analyses. Pooled overall analyses showed that rs1501299 polymorphism was significantly associated with PCOS risk (recessive model: p = 0.02, OR = 0.77, 95%CI 0.62-0.95; allele model: p = 0.001, OR = 1.15, 95%CI 1.06-1.26). Further subgroup analyses according to ethnicity of participants revealed that rs1501299 and rs2241766 polymorphisms were both significantly correlated with PCOS risk in Caucasians. In addition, rs1501299 polymorphism was also significantly correlated with PCOS risk in East Asians. Conclusions: Our findings indicated that rs1501299 and rs2241766 polymorphisms might serve as genetic biomarkers of PCOS in certain ethnicities.
Reduced cholesterol absorption upon PPARδ activation coincides with decreased intestinal expression of NPC1L1. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) control the transcription of genes involved in lipid metabolism. Activation of PPARδ may have antiatherogenic effects through the increase of plasma HDL, theoretically promoting reverse cholesterol transport from peripheral tissues toward the liver for removal via bile and feces. Effects of PPARδ activation by GW610742 were evaluated in wild-type and Abca1 deficient (Abca1-/-) mice that lack HDL. Treatment with GW610742 resulted in an ∼50% increase of plasma HDL-cholesterol in wild-type mice, whereas plasma cholesterol levels remained extremely low in Abca1-/- mice. Yet, biliary cholesterol secretion rates were similar in untreated wild-type and Abca1-/- mice and unaltered upon treatment. Unexpectedly, PPARδ activation led to enhanced fecal neutral sterol loss in both groups without any changes in intestinal Abca1, Abcg5, Abcg8, and 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl- coenzyme A reductase expression. Moreover, GW610742 treatment resulted in a 43% reduction of fractional cholesterol absorption in wild-type mice, coinciding with a significantly reduced expression of the cholesterol absorption protein Niemann-Pick C1-like 1 (Npc1l1) in the intestine. PPARδ activation is associated with increased plasma HDL and reduced intestinal cholesterol absorption efficiency that may be related to decreased intestinal Npc1l1 expression. Thus, PPARδ is a promising target for drugs aimed to treat or prevent atherosclerosis.
A gain-of-functional screen identifies the Hippo pathway as a central mediator of receptor tyrosine kinases during tumorigenesis. The Hippo pathway has emerged as a key signaling pathway that regulates various biological functions. Dysregulation of the Hippo pathway has been implicated in a broad range of human cancer types. While a number of stimuli affecting the Hippo pathway have been reported, its upstream kinase and extracellular regulators remain largely unknown. Here we performed the first comprehensive gain-of-functional screen for receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) regulating the Hippo pathway using an RTK overexpression library and a Hippo signaling activity biosensor. Surprisingly, we found that the majority of RTKs could regulate the Hippo signaling activity. We further characterized several of these novel relationships [TAM family members (TYRO3, AXL, METRK), RET, and FGFR family members (FGFR1 and FGFR2)] and found that the Hippo effectors YAP/TAZ are central mediators of the tumorigenic phenotypes (e.g., increased cell proliferation, transformation, increased cell motility, and angiogenesis) induced by these RTKs and their extracellular ligands (Gas6, GDNF, and FGF) through either PI3K or MAPK signaling pathway. Significantly, we identify FGFR, RET, and MERTK as the first RTKs that can directly interact with and phosphorylate YAP/TAZ at multiple tyrosine residues independent of upstream Hippo signaling, thereby activating their functions in tumorigenesis. In conclusion, we have identified several novel kinases and extracellular stimuli regulating the Hippo pathway. Our findings also highlight the pivotal role of the Hippo pathway in mediating Gas6/GDNF/FGF-TAM/RET/FGFR-MAPK/PI3K signaling during tumorigenesis and provide a compelling rationale for targeting YAP/TAZ in RTK-driven cancers.
The relationship between apoptosis, chromatin configuration, histone modification and competence of oocytes: A study using the mouse ovary-holding stress model. The epigenetic factors causing competence differences between SN (surrounded nucleolus) and NSN (non-surrounded nucleolus) oocytes, the significance for the increased histone acetylation and methylation in SN oocytes, and whether chromatin configuration or histone modification determines oocyte competence, are unclear. This study has addressed these issues by using the ovary-holding (OH) stress models where oocyte SN configuration was uncoupled from histone modifications and developmental potential. Prepubertal mouse ovaries containing high percentages of NSN oocytes were preserved at 37 or 39 °C for 1 or 2 h before examination for oocyte chromatin configuration, developmental competence, histone modification and apoptosis. Whereas 1-h OH at 37 °C caused a moderate apoptosis with increased oocyte competence, improved histone modification and a normal NSN-to-SN transition, harsher OH conditions induced a severe apoptosis with decreased oocyte competence, impaired histone modification and a pseudo (premature) NSN-to-SN transition. Observations on Fas/FasL expression and using the gld (generalized lymphoproliferative disorder) mice harboring FasL mutations indicated that OH triggered oocyte apoptosis with activation of the Fas signaling. It was concluded that OH stress caused oocyte apoptosis with activation of the Fas/FasL system and that oocyte competence was more closely correlated with histone modification than with chromatin configuration.
BMCP1, a novel mitochondrial carrier with high expression in the central nervous system of humans and rodents, and respiration uncoupling activity in recombinant yeast. We report here the cloning and functional analysis of a novel homologue of the mitochondrial carriers predominantly expressed in the central nervous system and referred to as BMCP1 (brain mitochondrial carrier protein-1). The predicted amino acid sequence of this novel mitochondrial carrier indicates a level of identity of 39, 31, or 30%, toward the mitochondrial oxoglutarate carrier, phosphate carrier, or adenine nucleotide translocator, respectively, and a level of identity of 34, 38, or 39% with the mitochondrial uncoupling proteins UCP1, UCP2, or UCP3, respectively. Northern analysis of mouse, rat, or human tissues demonstrated that mRNA of this novel gene is mainly expressed in brain, although it is 10-30-fold less expressed in other tissues. In situ hybridization analysis of brain showed it is particularly abundant in cortex, hippocampus, thalamus, amygdala, and hypothalamus. Chromosomal mapping indicates that BMCP1 is located on chromosome X of mice and at Xq24 in man. Expression of the protein in yeast strongly impaired growth rate. Analysis of respiration of total recombinant yeast or yeast spheroplasts and in particular of the relationship between respiratory rate and membrane potential of yeast spheroplasts revealed a marked uncoupling activity of respiration, suggesting that although BMCP1 sequence is more distant from the uncoupling proteins (UCPs), this protein could be a fourth member of the UCP family.
Pediatric brain tumor cells release exosomes with a miRNA repertoire that differs from exosomes secreted by normal cells. High-grade gliomas (HGGs) are very aggressive brain tumors with a cancer stem cell component. Cells, including cancer stem cells, release vesicles called exosomes which contain small non-coding RNAs such as microRNAs (miRNAs). These are thought to play an important role in cell-cell communication. However, we have limited knowledge of the types of exosomal miRNAs released by pediatric HGG stem cells; a prerequisite for exploring their potential roles in HGG biology. Here we isolated exosomes released by pediatric glioma stem cells (GSCs) and compared their repertoire of miRNAs to genetically normal neural stem cells (NSCs) exosomes, as well as their respective cellular miRNA content. Whereas cellular miRNAs are similar, we find that the exosomal miRNA profiles differ between normal and tumor cells, and identify several differentially expressed miRNAs. Of particular interest is miR-1290 and miR-1246, which have previously been linked to 'stemness' and invasion in other cancers. We demonstrate that GSC-secreted exosomes influence the gene expression of receiving NSCs, particularly targeting genes with a role in cell fate and tumorigenesis. Thus, our study shows that GSCs and NSCs have similar cellular miRNA profiles, yet differ significantly in the repertoire of exosomal miRNAs and these could influence malignant features of HGG.
Abnormal DNA methylation in CD4+ T cells from patients with systemic lupus erythematosus, systemic sclerosis, and dermatomyositis. Objectives: T-cell DNA hypomethylation is thought to contribute to the development of systemic erythematosus lupus (SLE). However, it is unknown whether impaired T-cell DNA methylation occurs in other connective tissue diseases, such as systemic sclerosis (SSc) and dermatomyositis (DM). Methods: We quantified global methylation in CD4+ T cells from 12 healthy donors and patients with SLE, SSc, and DM (10 patients in each group). mRNA levels of DNA methyltransferases (DNMTs) and methyl-CpG-binding domain proteins (MBDs) were measured by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Results: CD4+ T-cell DNA from patients with SLE (both active and inactive) and SSc, but not DM, was significantly hypomethylated relative to controls. The average expression levels of DNMT1 and MBD4 mRNA were significantly lower whereas MBD2 and MeCP2 mRNA levels were significantly higher in the SLE group. DNMT1, MBD3, and MBD4 mRNA was significantly decreased in the SSc group, whereas MBD2 and MeCP2 mRNA was significantly higher in the DM group. The degree of global DNA hypomethylation correlated positively with the relative level of DNMT1 across SLE samples and MBD4 across the SSc samples. Conclusion: Reduced DNA methylation and abnormal expression of methylation-related genes in CD4+ T cells are associated with SLE and SSc.
Towards systemic sclerosis and away from primary biliary cirrhosis: The case of PTPN22. Primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC) is a chronic cholestatic liver disease characterized by immune-mediated destruction of the small and medium size intrahepatic bile ducts. PBC patients often have concomitant autoimmune diseases, which are most often autoimmune thyroid disease, as well as Sicca syndrome. Occasionally, some PBC patients will also have systemic sclerosis of the limited cutaneous type (lcSSc). Conversely, up to one-fourth of SSc patients are positive for antimitochondrial antibody, the serologic hallmark of PBC. It is also common for SSc patients to have concomitant autoimmune disease, which may include PBC in rare cases. This has led to speculation of shared environmental and/or genetic factors, which lead to the development of PBC in SSc patients and vice versa. Recent genetic studies have revealed associations with several genes in both SSc and PBC. PTPN22 is one gene that has been associated with SSc, but not with PBC. It may be argued that some SSc patients with a particular genotype, which shares genes found in both conditions may develop PBC. Likewise, particular genes such as PTPN22 may infer susceptibility to SSc alone. The presence of PTPN22 may also contribute to the development of SSc in PBC patients. The lack of a large number of overlapping genes may, in part, explain the relative rarity of PBC with SSc and vice versa. This review will examine the literature surrounding the genetic associations of PBC and SSc, and the role of PTPN22 in particular.
Regulation of insulin-like growth factor I transcription by prostaglandin E2 in osteoblast cells. Insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) is a widely expressed abundant autocrine and paracrine factor that regulates the proliferation and differentiation of a variety of cell types. Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) is a potent stimulator of IGF-I synthesis in bone. We examined the regulation of IGF-I synthesis by PGE2 in osteoblast-enriched (Ob) cells from fetal rat calvaria. PGE2 treatment of Ob cells at 1 microM for 2 h resulted in a 5-fold increase in heterogeneous nuclear RNA levels, as measured by a reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction assay, suggesting an increase in IGF-I gene transcription. RNase protection analysis was used to map the transcriptional start sites in the IGF-I gene that are used in Ob cells. Consistent with other extrahepatic tissues, initiation of transcription occurs primarily at three sites within the 5′-regions of exon 1 of the IGF-I gene. PGE2 treatment did not alter start site usage. The regions upstream of these transcriptional start sites were analyzed by transiently transfecting Ob cells with putative rat IGF-I promoter sequences ligated to a luciferase reporter gene. Constructs containing 1.4 kilobases of the 5′-regions regions of exons 1 and 2 had significant promoter activity. PGE2 treatment of transfected Ob cells increased luciferase activity 5-fold when a 1.4-kilobase exon 1 promoter fragment was tested. This increase in luciferase activity was time and dose dependent. Smaller regions of the exon 1 promoter sequence gave higher basal activity and were less responsive to PGE2. We conclude that regions involved in IGF-I regulation by PGE2 are contained within the IGF-I promoter.
A 40-kilodalton protein binds specifically to an upstream sequence element essential for muscle-specific transcription of the human myoglobin promoter. To define transcriptional control elements responsible for muscle-specific expression of the human myoglobin gene, we performed mutational analysis of upstream sequences (nucleotide positions -373 to +7 relative to the transcriptional start site) linked to a firefly luciferase gene. Transient expression assays in avian and mammalian cells indicated that a CCCACCCCC (CCAC box) sequence (-223 to -204) is necessary for muscle-specific transcription directed either by the native myoglobin promoter or by a heterologous minimal promoter linked to the myoglobin upstream enhancer region. A putative MEF2-like site (-160 to -169) was likewise necessary for full transcriptional activity in myotubes. Mutations within either of two CANNTG (E-box) motifs (-176 to -148) had only minimal effects on promoter function. We identified and partially purified from nuclear extracts a 40-KDa protein (CBF40) that binds specifically to oligonucleotides containing the CCAC box sequence. A mutation of the CCAC box that disrupted promoter function in vivo also impaired binding of CBF40 in vitro. These data suggest that cooperative interactions between CBF40 and other factors including MEF-2 are required for expression of the human myoglobin gene in skeletal muscle.
A Sox2 distal enhancer cluster regulates embryonic stem cell differentiation potential. The Sox2 transcription factor must be robustly transcribed in embryonic stem (ES) cells to maintain pluripotency. Two gene-proximal enhancers, Sox2 regulatory region 1 (SRR1) and SRR2, display activity in reporter assays, but deleting SRR1 has no effect on pluripotency. We identified and functionally validated the sequences required for Sox2 transcription based on a computational model that predicted transcriptional enhancer elements within 130 kb of Sox2. Our reporter assays revealed three novel enhancers—SRR18, SRR107, and SRR111—that, through the formation of chromatin loops, form a chromatin complex with the Sox2 promoter in ES cells. Using the CRISPR/ Cas9 system and F1 ES cells (Mus musculus 129 × Mus castaneus), we generated heterozygous deletions of each enhancer region, revealing that only the distal cluster containing SRR107 and SRR111, located >100 kb downstream from Sox2, is required for cis-regulation of Sox2 in ES cells. Furthermore, homozygous deletion of this distal Sox2 control region (SCR) caused significant reduction in Sox2 mRNA and protein levels, loss of ES cell colony morphology, genome-wide changes in gene expression, and impaired neuroectodermal formation upon spontaneous differentiation to embryoid bodies. Together, these data identify a distal control region essential for Sox2 transcription in ES cells.
A cellular response linking eIF4AI activity to eIF4AII transcription. The recruitment of ribosomes to eukaryotic cellular mRNAs requires the activity of two prototypic RNA helicases, eukaryotic initiation factor (eIF) 4AI and eIF4AII. The eIF4A isoforms are highly conserved, are thought to be functionally interchangeable, and are directed to the 5′ m 7GpppN cap structure of mRNAs during translation initiation by virtue of their assembly into eIF4F, a heterotrimeric complex that also harbors the eIF4E cap binding protein and eIF4G scaffolding unit. During the course of RNA interference experiments aimed at investigating the respective roles of eIF4AI and eIF4AII in translation, we uncovered a cellular response pathway whereby suppression of eIF4AI increases transcription of the eIF4AII gene, leading to elevated eIF4AII mRNA and protein levels. Inhibition of eIF4AI suppresses protein synthesis, and although eIF4AII protein levels increase above and beyond what should be sufficient to compensate for the decrease in eIF4AI levels, there is no corresponding rescue of translation or of the block on cellular proliferation that occurs upon eIF4AI suppression. These results were phenocopied using the small molecule eIF4A inhibitor hippuristanol. Taken together, our results indicate that eIF4AI and eIF4AII expression appear linked and that the two protein isoforms exhibit functional differences.
A complex interplay of genetic and epigenetic events leads to abnormal expression of the DUX4 gene in facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy. Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD), a prevalent inherited human myopathy, develops following a complex interplay of genetic and epigenetic events. FSHD1, the more frequent genetic form, is associated with: (1) deletion of an integral number of 3.3 Kb (D4Z4) repeated elements at the chromosomal region 4q35, (2) a specific 4q35 subtelomeric haplotype denominated 4qA, and (3) decreased methylation of cytosines at the 4q35-linked D4Z4 units. FSHD2 is most often caused by mutations at the SMCHD1 (Structural Maintenance of Chromosomes Hinge Domain 1) gene, on chromosome 18p11.32. FSHD2 individuals also carry the 4qA haplotype and decreased methylation of D4Z4 cytosines. Each D4Z4 unit contains a copy of the retrotransposed gene DUX4 (double homeobox containing protein 4). DUX4 gene functionality was questioned in the past because of its pseudogene-like structure, its location on repetitive telomeric DNA sequences (i.e. junk DNA), and the elusive nature of both the DUX4 transcript and the encoded protein, DUX4. It is now known that DUX4 is a nuclear-located transcription factor, which is normally expressed in germinal tissues. Aberrant DUX4 expression triggers a deregulation cascade inhibiting muscle differentiation, sensitizing cells to oxidative stress, and inducing muscle atrophy. A unifying pathogenic model for FSHD emerged with the recognition that the FSHD-permissive 4qA haplotype corresponds to a polyadenylation signal that stabilizes the DUX4 mRNA, allowing the toxic protein DUX4 to be expressed. This working hypothesis for FSHD pathogenesis highlights the intrinsic epigenetic nature of the molecular mechanism underlying FSHD as well as the pathogenic pathway connecting FSHD1 and FSHD2. Pharmacological control of either DUX4 gene expression or the activity of the DUX4 protein constitutes current potential rational therapeutic approaches to treat FSHD.
A distal region in the interferon-γ gene is a site of epigenetic remodeling and transcriptional regulation by interleukin-2. Interferon-γ (IFN-γ) is a multifunctional cytokine that defines the development of Th1 cells and is critical for host defense against intracellular pathogens. IL-2 is another key immunoregulatory cytokine that is involved in T helper differentiation and is known to induce IFN-γ expression in natural killer (NK) and T cells. Despite concerted efforts to identify the one or more transcriptional control mechanisms by which IL-2 induces IFN-γ mRNA expression, no such genomic regulatory regions have been described. We have identified a DNase I hypersensitivity site ∼3.5-4.0 kb upstream of the transcriptional start site. Using chromatin immunoprecipitation assays we found constitutive histone H3 acetylation in this distal region in primary human NK cells, which is enhanced by IL-2 treatment. This distal region is also preferentially acetylated on histones H3 and H4 in primary Th1 cells as compared with Th2 cells. Within this distal region we found a Stat5-like motif, and in vitro DNA binding assays as well as in vivo chromosomal immunoprecipitation assays showed IL-2-induced binding of both Stat5a and Stat5b to this distal element in the IFNG gene. We examined the function of this Stat5-binding motif by transfecting human peripheral blood mononuclear cells with -3.6 kb of IFNG-luciferase constructs and found that phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate/ionomycin-induced transcription was augmented by IL-2 treatment. The effect of IL-2 was lost when the Stat5 motif was disrupted. These data led us to conclude that this distal region serves as both a target of chromatin remodeling in the IFNG locus as well as an IL-2-induced transcriptional enhancer that binds Stat5 proteins.
A genomic approach to the identification and characterization of HOXA13 functional binding elements. HOX proteins are important transcriptional regulators in mammalian embryonic development and are dysregulated in human cancers. However, there are few known direct HOX target genes and their mechanisms of regulation are incompletely understood. To isolate and characterize gene segments through which HOX proteins regulate transcription we used cesium chloride centrifugation-based chromatin purification and immunoprecipitation (ChIP). From NIH 3T3-derived HOXA13-FLAG expressing cells, 33% of randomly selected, ChIP clones were reproducibly enriched. Hox-enriched fragments (HEFs) were more AT-rich compared with cloned fragments that failed reproducible ChIP. All HEFs augmented transcription of a heterologous promoter upon coexpression with HOXA13. One HEF was from intron 2 of Enpp2, a gene highly upregulated in these cells and has been implicated in cell motility. Using Enpp2 as a candidate direct target, we identified three additional HEFs upstream of the transcription start site. HOXA13 upregulated transcription from an Enpp2 promoter construct containing these sites, and each site was necessary for full HOXA13-induced expression. Lastly, given that HOX proteins have been demonstrated to interact with histone deacetylases and/or CBP, we explored whether histone acetylation changed at Enpp2 upon HOXA13-induced activation. No change in the general histone acetylation state was observed. Our results support models in which occupation of multiple HOX binding sites is associated with highly activated genes.
A histone chaperone, DEK, transcriptionally coactivates a nuclear receptor. Chromatin reorganization is essential for transcriptional control by sequence-specific transcription factors. However, the molecular link between transcriptional control and chromatin reconfiguration remains unclear. By colocalization of the nuclear ecdysone receptor (EcR) on the ecdysone-induced puff in the salivary gland, Drosophila DEK (dDEK) was genetically identified as a coactivator of EcR in both insect cells and intact flies. Biochemical purification and characterization of the complexes containing fly and human DEKs revealed that DEKs serve as histone chaperones via phosphorylation by forming complexes with casein kinase 2. Consistent with the preferential association of the DEK complex with histones enriched in active epigenetic marks, dDEK facilitated H3.3 assembly during puff formation. In some human myeloid leukemia patients, DEK was fused to CAN by chromosomal translocation. This mutation significantly reduced formation of the DEK complex, which is required for histone chaperone activity. Thus, the present study suggests that at least one histone chaperone can be categorized as a type of transcriptional coactivator for nuclear receptors.
A limiting factor mediates the differential activation of promoters by the human progesterone receptor isoforms. The two transcription activation functions (TAFs) of the human progesterone receptor (hPR) have been characterized. TAF-1, located in the N- terminal region A/B, has been narrowed down to a 91-amino acid sequence, which is sufficient for transcription activation in chimeras with the GAL4 DNA binding domain. Both hPR TAF-1 and TAF-2 activate a minimal promoter in yeast. No autonomous TAF could be found in the N-terminal 164 amino acids (designated AB3) which are responsible for the differential activation of promoters by the hPR isoforms A and B. Reduction of the target gene promoter complexity did not alter this differential activation, indicating that AB3 does not require additional promoter-bound factors to exert its effect. Instead, the cell specificity of AB3 and its ability to squelch hPR-induced transcription suggest that this differential isoform activity is due to the effect of a limiting factor which binds to region AB3.
A mediator role for metallothionein in tumor necrosis factor-induced lethal shock. Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) is a proinflammatory cytokine, which is centrally involved in several inflammatory disorders. Administration of TNF leads to a potentially lethal systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS). We observed that (a) mice lacking functional genes for metallothionein 1 and 2 (MT-null) were protected compared with wild-type controls (P = 0.0078), and (b) mice overexpressing MT-1 (MT-TG) were more sensitized for the lethal effect of TNF than control mice (P = 0.0003), indicating a mediating role for MT in TNF induced SIRS. As MT is involved in the body zinc homeostasis, we tested whether zinc-deprivation or -supplementation alters the response to TNF. Although zinc-depletion strongly sensitized (P = 0.036), and pretreatment with zinc sulfate (ZnSO4) conferred protection against the deleterious effects of TNF (P < 0.0002), it was also found that the protection provided by zinc is independent of MT. Our observation that hsp70 is strongly induced in jejunum after ZnSO4 treatment, suggests a contribution of hsp70 in the protection against TNF. In addition, ZnSO4 cotreatment allowed complete regression of inoculated tumors with TNF and interferon γ, leading to a significantly better survival (P = 0.0045).
A methylated oligonucleotide inhibits IGF2 expression and enhances survival in a model of hepatocellular carcinoma. IGF-II is a mitogenic peptide that has been implicated in hepatocellular oncogenesis. Since the silencing of gene expression is frequently associated with cytosine methylation at cytosine-guanine (CpG) dinucleotides, we designed a methylated oligonucleotide (MON1) complementary to a region encompassing IGF2 promoter P4 in an attempt to induce DNA methylation at that locus and diminish IGF2 mRNA levels. MON1 specifically inhibited IGF2 mRNA accumulation in vitro, whereas an oligonucleotide (ON1) with the same sequence but with nonmethylated cytosines had no effect on IGF2 mRNA abundance. MON1 treatment led to the specific induction of de novo DNA methylation in the region of IGF2 promoter hP4. Cells from a human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cell line, Hep 3B, were implanted into the livers of nude mice, resulting in the growth of large tumors. Animals treated with MON1 had markedly prolonged survival as compared with those animals treated with saline or a truncated methylated oligonucleotide that did not alter IGF2 mRNA levels in vitro. This study demonstrates that a methylated sense oligonucleotide can be used to induce epigenetic changes in the IGF2 gene and that inhibition of IGF2 mRNA accumulation may lead to enhanced survival in a model of HCC.
A model for transmission of the H3K27me3 epigenetic mark. Organization of chromatin by epigenetic mechanisms is essential for establishing and maintaining cellular identity in developing and adult organisms. A key question that remains unresolved about this process is how epigenetic marks are transmitted to the next cell generation during cell division. Here we provide a model to explain how trimethylated Lys 27 of histone 3 (H3K27me3), which is catalysed by the EZH2-containing Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 (PRC2), is maintained in proliferating cells. We show that the PRC2 complex binds to the H3K27me3 mark and colocalizes with this mark in G1 phase and with sites of ongoing DNA replication. Efficient binding requires an intact trimeric PRC2 complex containing EZH2, EED and SUZ12, but is independent of the catalytic SET domain of EZH2. Using a heterologous reporter system, we show that transient recruitment of the PRC2 complex to chromatin, upstream of the transcriptional start site, is sufficient to maintain repression through endogenous PRC2 during subsequent cell divisions. Thus, we suggest that once the H3K27me3 is established, it recruits the PRC2 complex to maintain the mark at sites of DNA replication, leading to methylation of H3K27 on the daughter strands during incorporation of newly synthesized histones. This mechanism ensures maintenance of the H3K27me3 epigenetic mark in proliferating cells, not only during DNA replication when histones synthesized de novo are incorporated, but also outside S phase, thereby preserving chromatin structure and transcriptional programs.
A novel HER2 gene body enhancer contributes to HER2 expression. The transcriptional regulation of the human epidermal growth factor receptor-2 (HER2) contributes to an enhanced HER2 expression in HER2-positive breast cancers with HER2 gene amplification and HER2-low or HER2-negative breast cancers following radiotherapy or endocrine therapy, and this drives tumorigenesis and the resistance to therapy. Epigenetic mechanisms are critical for transcription regulation, however, such mechanisms in the transcription regulation of HER2 are limited to the involvement of tri-methylated histone 3 lysine 4 (H3K4me3) and acetylated histone 3 lysine 9 (H3K9ac) at the HER2 promoter region. Here, we report the identification of a novel enhancer in the HER2 3' gene body, which we have termed HER2 gene body enhancer (HGE). The HGE starts from the 3' end of intron 19 and extends into intron 22, possesses enhancer histone modification marks in specific cells and enhances the transcriptional activity of the HER2 promoters. We also found that TFAP2C, a known regulator of HER2, binds to HGE and is required for its enhancer function and that DNA methylation in the HGE region inhibits the histone modifications characterizing enhancer and is inversely correlated with HER2 expression in breast cancer samples. The identification of this novel enhancer sheds a light on the roles of epigenetic mechanisms in HER2 transcription, in both HER2-positive breast cancer samples and individuals with HER2-low or HER2-negative breast cancers undergoing radiotherapy or endocrine therapy.
A novel YY1-miR-1 regulatory circuit in skeletal myogenesis revealed by Genome-wide prediction of YY1-miRNA network. microRNAs (miRNAs) are non-coding RNAs that regulate gene expression post-transcriptionally, and mounting evidence supports the prevalence and functional significance of their interplay with transcription factors (TFs). Here we describe the identification of a regulatory circuit between muscle miRNAs (miR-1, miR-133 and miR-206) and Yin Yang 1 (YY1), an epigenetic repressor of skeletal myogenesis in mouse. Genome-wide identification of potential down-stream targets of YY1 by combining computational prediction with expression profiling data reveals a large number of putative miRNA targets of YY1 during skeletal myoblasts differentiation into myotubes with muscle miRs ranking on top of the list. The subsequent experimental results demonstrate that YY1 indeed represses muscle miRs expression in myoblasts and the repression is mediated through multiple enhancers and recruitment of Polycomb complex to several YY1 binding sites. YY1 regulating miR-1 is functionally important for both C2C12 myogenic differentiation and injury-induced muscle regeneration. Furthermore, we demonstrate that miR-1 in turn targets YY1, thus forming a negative feedback loop. Together, these results identify a novel regulatory circuit required for skeletal myogenesis and reinforce the idea that regulatory circuitries involving miRNAs and TFs are prevalent mechanisms.
A novel role of the interferon-inducible protein IFI16 as inducer of proinflammatory molecules in endothelial cells. The human IFI16 gene is an interferon-inducible gene implicated in the regulation of endothelial cell proliferation and tube morphogenesis. Immunohistochemical analysis has demonstrated that this gene is highly expressed in endothelial cells in addition to hematopoietic tissues. In this study, gene array analysis of human umbilical vein endothelial cells overexpressing IFI16 revealed an increased expression of genes involved in immunomodulation, cell growth, and apoptosis. Consistent with these observations, IFI16 triggered expression of adhesion molecules such as ICAM-1 and E-selectin or chemokines such as interleukin-8 or MCP-1. Treatment of cells with short hairpin RNA targeting IFI16 significantly inhibited ICAM-1 induction by interferon (IFN)-γ demonstrating that IFI16 is required for proinflammatory gene stimulation. Moreover, functional analysis of the ICAM-1 promoter by deletion- or site-specific mutation demonstrated that NF-κB is the main mediator of IFI16-driven gene induction. NF-κB activation appears to be triggered by IFI16 through a novel mechanism involving suppression of IκBα mRNA and protein expression. Support for this finding comes from the observation that IFI16 targeting with specific short hairpin RNA down-regulates NF-κB binding activity to its cognate DNA and inhibits ICAM-1 expression induced by IFN-γ. Using transient transfection and luciferase assay, electrophoretic mobility shift assay, and chromatin immunoprecipitation, we demonstrate indeed that activation of the NF-κB response is mediated by IFI16-induced block of Sp1-like factor recruitment to the promoter of the IκBα gene, encoding the main NF-κB inhibitor. Activation of NF-κB accompanied by induction of proinflammatory molecules was also observed when IκBα expression was down-regulated by specific small interfering RNA, resulting in an outcome similar to that observed with IFI16 overexpression. Taken together, these data implicate IFI16 as a novel regulator of endothelial proinflammatory activity and provide new insights into the physiological functions of the IFN-inducible gene IFI16.
A permissive chromatin state regulated by ZFP281-AFF3 in controlling the imprinted Meg3 polycistron. Genomic imprinting is an epigenetic regulation that leads to gene expression in a parent-of-origin specific manner. AFF3, the central component of the Super Elongation Complex-like 3 (SEC-L3), is enriched at both the intergenic-differentially methylated region (IG-DMR) and the Meg3enhancer within the imprinted Dlk1-Dio3 locus to regulate the allele-specific gene expression in this locus. The localization of AFF3 to IG-DMR requires ZFP57. However, how AFF3 functions at the Meg3enhancer in maintaining allele-specific gene expression remains unclear. Here, we demonstrate that AFF3 is associated with the Krüppel-like zinc finger protein ZFP281 in mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells. ZFP281 recruits AFF3 to the Meg 3 enhancer within the imprinted Dlk1-Dio3 locus, thus regulating the allele-specific expression of the Meg3 polycistron. Our genome-wide analyses further identify ZFP281 as a critical factor generally associating with AFF3 at enhancers and functioning together with AFF3 in regulating the expression of a subset of genes. Our study suggests that different zinc finger proteins can recruit AFF3 to different regulatory elements and differentially regulate the function of AFF3 in a context-dependent manner.
A putative cyclin-binding motif in human SAMHD1 contributes to protein phosphorylation, localization, and stability. SAMHD1 (sterile α motif and HD domain-containing protein 1) is a mammalian protein that regulates intracellular dNTP levels through its hydrolysis of dNTPs. SAMHD1 functions as an important retroviral restriction factor through a mechanism relying on its dNTPase activity. We and others have reported that human SAMHD1 interacts with the cell cycle regulatory proteins cyclin A, CDK1, and CDK2, which mediates phosphorylation of SAMHD1 at threonine 592, a post-translational modification that has been implicated in abrogating SAMHD1 restriction function and ability to form stable tetramers. Utilizing co-immunoprecipitation and colocalization approaches, we show that endogenous SAMHD1 is able to interact with the cyclin A-CDK1-CDK2 complex in monocytic THP-1 cells and primary monocyte-derived macrophages. Sequence analysis of SAMHD1 identifies a putative cyclin-binding motif found in many cyclin-CDK complex substrates. Using a mutagenesis-based approach, we demonstrate that the conserved residues in the putative cyclin-binding motif are important for protein expression, protein half-life, and optimal phosphorylation of SAMHD1 at Thr592. Furthermore, we observed that SAMHD1 mutants of the cyclin-binding motif mislocalized to a nuclear compartment and had reduced ability to interact with cyclin A-CDK complexes and to form the tetramer. These findings help define the mechanisms by which SAMHD1 is phosphorylated and suggest the contribution of cyclin binding to SAMHD1 expression and stability in dividing cells.
A short G1 phase imposes constitutive replication stress and fork remodelling in mouse embryonic stem cells. Embryonic stem cells (ESCs) represent a transient biological state, where pluripotency is coupled with fast proliferation. ESCs display a constitutively active DNA damage response (DDR), but its molecular determinants have remained elusive. Here we show in cultured ESCs and mouse embryos that H2AX phosphorylation is dependent on Ataxia telangiectasia and Rad3 related (ATR) and is associated with chromatin loading of the ssDNA-binding proteins RPA and RAD51. Single-molecule analysis of replication intermediates reveals massive ssDNA gap accumulation, reduced fork speed and frequent fork reversal. All these marks of replication stress do not impair the mitotic process and are rapidly lost at differentiation onset. Delaying the G1/S transition in ESCs allows formation of 53BP1 nuclear bodies and suppresses ssDNA accumulation, fork slowing and reversal in the following S-phase. Genetic inactivation of fork slowing and reversal leads to chromosomal breakage in unperturbed ESCs. We propose that rapid cell cycle progression makes ESCs dependent on effective replication-coupled mechanisms to protect genome integrity.
A single-cell epigenetic model for paternal psychological stress-induced transgenerational reprogramming in offspring. Experimental evidence shows that parental psychological stress affects the long-term health of offspring in an inheritable fashion. Although epigenetic mechanisms, including DNA methylation, miRNA, and histone modifications, are involved in transgenerational programming, the underlining mechanisms of transgenerational inheritance remain unsolved. Here, we present a single-cell-based computational model for transgenerational inheritance for investigating the long-term dynamics of phenotype changes in response to parental stress. The model is based on a recent study that has identified the imprinted sperm gene Sfmbt2 as a key target, and incorporates crosstalks among drastically different time scales in mammalian development, including DNA methylation, transcription, cell division, and population dynamics. Computational analysis of the model suggests a positive feedback to DNA methylation in the promoter region of sperm Sfmbt2 gene that provides a possible mechanism to mediate the parental psychological stress reprogramming in offspring. This approach provides a modeling framework for the understanding of the roles that epigenetics play in transgenerational inheritance.
A tissue-specific chromatin loop activates the erythroid ankyrin-1 promoter. The human ankyrin-1 gene (ANK1) contains 3 tissue-specific alternative promoters. We have shown previously that the erythroid-specific ankyrin 1 (ANK1E) core promoter contains a 5′ DNase I hypersensitive site (HS) with barrier insulator function that prevents gene silencing in vitro and in vivo. Mutations in the ANK1E barrier region lead to decreased ANK1 mRNA levels and hereditary spherocytosis. In this report, we demonstrate a second ANK1E regulatory element located in an adjacent pair of DNase I HS located 5.6 kb 3′ of the ANK1E promoter at the 3′ boundary of an erythroid-specific DNase I-sensitive chromatin domain. The 3′ regulatory element exhibits enhancer activity in vitro and in transgenic mice, and it has the histone modifications associated with an enhancer element. One of the ANK1E 3′ HS contains an NF-E2 binding site that is required for enhancer function. We show that a chromatin loop brings the 3′ enhancer and NF-E2 into proximity with the 5′ barrier region including the ANK1E core promoter. These observations demonstrate a model for the tissuespecific activation of alternative promoters that may be applicable to the ∼ 30% of mammalian genes with alternative promoters that exhibit distinct expression patterns.
A2b adenosine signaling represses CIITA transcription via an epigenetic mechanism in vascular smooth muscle cells. Chronic inflammation plays a major role in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis. Vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC), by expressing and presenting major histocompatibility complex II (MHC II) molecules, help recruit T lymphocyte and initiate the inflammatory response within the vasculature. We have previously shown that VSMCs isolated from mice with deficient adenosine A2b receptor (A2b-null) exhibit higher expression of class II transactivator (CIITA), the master regulator of MHC II transcription, compared to wild type littermates. Here we report that activation of A2b adenosine signaling suppresses CIITA expression in human aortic smooth muscle cells. Down-regulation of CIITA expression was largely attributable to transcriptional repression of type III and IV promoters. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) analyses revealed that A2b signaling repressed CIITA transcription by attenuating specific histone modifications on the CIITA promoters in a STAT1-dependent manner. STAT1 interacted with PCAF/GCN5, histone H3K9 acetyltransferases, and WDR5, a key component of the mammalian H3K4 methyltransferase complex, to activate CIITA transcription. A2b signaling prevented recruitment of PCAF/GCN5 and WDR5 to the CIITA promoters in a STAT1-dependent manner. In conclusion, our data suggest that adenosine A2b signaling represses CIITA transcription in VSMCs by manipulating the interaction between STAT1 and the epigenetic machinery.
ARS2/MAGL signaling in glioblastoma stem cells promotes self-renewal and M2-like polarization of tumor-associated macrophages. The interplay between glioblastoma stem cells (GSCs) and tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) promotes progression of glioblastoma multiforme (GBM). However, the detailed molecular mechanisms underlying the relationship between these two cell types remain unclear. Here, we demonstrate that ARS2 (arsenite-resistance protein 2), a zinc finger protein that is essential for early mammalian development, plays critical roles in GSC maintenance and M2-like TAM polarization. ARS2 directly activates its novel transcriptional target MGLL, encoding monoacylglycerol lipase (MAGL), to regulate the self-renewal and tumorigenicity of GSCs through production of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), which stimulates β-catenin activation of GSC and M2-like TAM polarization. We identify M2-like signature downregulated by which MAGL-specific inhibitor, JZL184, increased survival rate significantly in the mouse xenograft model by blocking PGE2 production. Taken together, our results suggest that blocking the interplay between GSCs and TAMs by targeting ARS2/MAGL signaling offers a potentially novel therapeutic option for GBM patients.
ATF4- and CHOP-dependent induction of FGF21 through endoplasmic reticulum stress. Fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21) is an important endogenous regulator involved in the regulation of glucose and lipid metabolism. FGF21 expression is strongly induced in animal and human subjects with metabolic diseases, but little is known about the molecular mechanism. Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress plays an essential role in metabolic homeostasis and is observed in numerous pathological processes, including type 2 diabetes, overweight, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). In this study, we investigate the correlation between the expression of FGF21 and ER stress. We demonstrated that TG-induced ER stress directly regulated the expression and secretion of FGF21 in a dose- and time-dependent manner. FGF21 is the target gene for activating transcription factor 4 (ATF4) and CCAAT enhancer binding protein homologous protein (CHOP). Suppression of CHOP impaired the transcriptional activation of FGF21 by TG-induced ER stress in CHOP-/- mouse primary hepatocytes (MPH), and overexpression of ATF4 and CHOP resulted in FGF21 promoter activation to initiate the transcriptional programme. In mRNA stability assay, we indicated that ER stress increased the half-life of mRNA of FGF21 significantly. In conclusion, FGF21 expression is regulated by ER stress via ATF- and CHOP-dependent transcriptional mechanism and posttranscriptional mechanism, respectively.
ATP acts via P2Y1 receptors to stimulate acetylcholinesterase and acetylcholine receptor expression: Transduction and transcription control. At the vertebrate neuromuscular junction ATP is known to stabilize acetylcholine in the synaptic vesicles and to be co-released with it. We have shown previously that a nucleotide receptor, the P2Y1 receptor, is localized at the junction, and we propose that this mediates a trophic role for synaptic ATP there. Evidence in support of this and on its mechanism is given here. With the use of chick or mouse myotubes expressing promoter-reporter constructs from genes of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) or of the acetylcholine receptor subunits, P2Y1 receptor agonists were shown to stimulate the transcription of each of those genes. The pathway to activation of the AChE gene was shown to involve protein kinase C and intracellular Ca2+ release. Application of dominant-negative or constitutively active mutants, or inhibitors of specific kinases, showed that it further proceeds via some of the known intermediates of extracellular signal-regulated kinase phosphorylation. In both chick and mouse myotubes this culminates in activation of the transcription factor Elk-1, confirmed by gel mobility shift assays and by the nuclear accumulation of phosphorylated Elk-1. All of the aforementioned activations by agonist were amplified when the content of P2Y1 receptors was boosted by transfection, and the activations were blocked by a P2Y1-selective antagonist. Two Elk-1 binding site sequences present in the AChE gene promoter were jointly sufficient to drive ATP-induced reporter gene transcription. Thus ATP regulates postsynaptic gene expression via a pathway to a selective transcription factor activation.
AVL9 promotes colorectal carcinoma cell migration via regulating EGFR expression. Background: Despite advanced treatments could inhibit progression of colorectal carcinoma (CRC), the recurrence and metastasis remain challenging issues. Accumulating evidences implicated that AVL9 played a vital role in human cancers, but it’s biological function and mechanism in CRC remain unclear. Aim: To investigate the biological role and mechanism of AVL9 in colorectal carcinoma. Results: AVL9 expression was significantly upregulated in tumor tissues than that in matched normal tissues both at mRNA and protein levels. High expression of AVL9 was closely correlated with M status, stages and poor prognosis of colorectal carcinoma (CRC) patients. Functionally, AVL9 overexpression promoted cell migration rather than cell proliferation in vitro, whereas AVL9 knockdown exhibited the contrary results. Mechanistically, AVL9 regulated EGFR expression, and knockdown of EGFR restrained AVL9-induced cell migration. Conclusion: These findings demonstrated that AVL9 contributed to CRC cell migration by regulating EGFR expression, suggesting a potential biomarker and treatment target for CRC.
Aberrantly methylated-differentially expressed genes and pathways in colorectal cancer. Background: Methylation plays an important role in the etiology and pathogenesis of colorectal cancer (CRC). This study aimed to identify aberrantly methylated-differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and pathways in CRC by comprehensive bioinformatics analysis. Methods: Data of gene expression microarrays (GSE68468, GSE44076) and gene methylation microarrays (GSE29490, GSE17648) were downloaded from GEO database. Aberrantly methylated-DEGs were obtained by GEO2R. Functional and enrichment analyses of selected genes were performed using DAVID database. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was constructed by STRING and visualized in Cytoscape. MCODE was used for module analysis of the PPI network. Results: Totally 411 hypomethylation-high expression genes were identified, which were enriched in biological processes of response to wounding or inflammation, cell proliferation and adhesion. Pathway enrichment showed cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, p53 signaling and cell cycle. The top 5 hub genes of PPI network were CAD, CCND1, ATM, RB1 and MET. Additionally, 239 hypermethylation-low expression genes were identified, which demonstrated enrichment in biological processes including cell-cell signaling, nerve impulse transmission, etc. Pathway analysis indicated enrichment in calcium signaling, maturity onset diabetes of the young, cell adhesion molecules, etc. The top 5 hub genes of PPI network were EGFR, ACTA1, SST, ESR1 and DNM2. After validation in TCGA database, most hub genes still remained significant. Conclusion: In summary, our study indicated possible aberrantly methylated-differentially expressed genes and pathways in CRC by bioinformatics analysis, which may provide novel insights for unraveling pathogenesis of CRC. Hub genes including CAD, CCND1, ATM, RB1, MET, EGFR, ACTA1, SST, ESR1 and DNM2 might serve as aberrantly methylation-based biomarkers for precise diagnosis and treatment of CRC in the future.
Acetylated histones are associated with FMR1 in normal but not fragile X-syndrome cells. Mutation of FMR1 results in fragile X mental retardation. The most common FMR1 mutation is expansion of a CGG repeat tract at the 5' end of FMR1 (refs 2-4), which leads to cytosine methylation and transcriptional silencing. Both DNA methylation and histone deacetylation have been associated with transcriptional inactivity. The finding that the methyl cytosine-binding protein MeCP2 binds to histone deacetylases and represses transcription in vivo supports a model in which MeCP2 recruits histone deacetylases to methylated DNA, resulting in histone deacetylation, chromatin condensation and transcriptional silencing. Here we demonstrate that the 5' end of FMR1 is associated with acetylated histones H3 and H4 in cells from normal individuals, but acetylation is reduced in cells from fragile X patients. Treatment of fragile X cells with 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-aza- dC) resulted in reassociation of acetylated histones H3 and H4 with FMR1 and transcriptional reactivation, whereas treatment with trichostatin A (TSA) led to almost complete acetylated histone H4 and little acetylated histone H3 reassociation with FMR1, as well as no detectable transcription. Our results represent the first description of loss of histone acetylation at a specific locus in human disease, and advance understanding of the mechanism of FMR1 transcriptional silencing.
Activation of the IκB kinase complex is sufficient for neuronal differentiation of PC12 cells. We examined the role of the IκB kinase complex in nerve growth factor (NGF)-induced neuronal differentiation of PC12 cells. We showed that neurite outgrowth is accompanied by an activation of the IKK complex and a delayed elevation of NF-κB-dependent transcription. Ectopic expression of a constitutively active form of IKK2 but not of IKK1 promoted neurite outgrowth in the absence of NGF, In addition, increased expression of Bcl-2 and Bcl-xL and resistance to apoptosis upon serum withdrawal were found. The IKK2-driven neurite outgrowth was not blocked by MEK1/2 and PI3K inhibitors but was repressed by the SN50 peptide suggesting that NF-κB activation is critical for this differentiation process. Transdominant mutants of IκBα (32/36-SS/AA) and IKK1 only marginally reduced NGF-driven neuritogenesis. However, a dominant negative mutant of IKK2 or an IκBα protein lacking the complete N-terminus was able to repress neuritogenesis. We also detected tyrosine phosphorylation of IκBα during differentiation. Consequently, PC12 cells expressing mutant IκBα (Y42F) show an impaired neuritogenesis. Furthermore, PC12 cells ectopically expressing p65 show almost no signs of neurite outgrowth which is, however, found to some extent in c-Rel-expressing cells. Our data suggest that NGF-induced PC12 differentiation includes activation of IKK2 which may promote the release of c-Rel-containing dimers.
Activity-dependent downregulation of M-Type (Kv7) K+ channels surface expression requires the activation of iGluRs/Ca2+/PKC signaling pathway in hippocampal neuron. Abstract M-type (Kv7) K+ channels, encoded by KCNQ2-KCNQ5 genes, play a pivotal role in controlling neuronal excitability. However, precisely how neuronal activity regulates Kv7 channel translocation has not yet been fully defined. Here we reported activity-dependent changes in Kv7 channel subunits Kv7.2 and Kv7.3 surface expression by glutamate (glu). In the present study, we found that treatment with glutamate rapidly caused a specific decrease in M-current as well as Kv7 channel surface expression in primary cultured hippocampal neurons. The glutamate effects were mimicked by NMDA and AMPA. The glutamate effects on Kv7 channels were partially attenuated by pre-treatment of NMDA receptors antagonist d,l-APV or AMPA-KA receptors antagonist CNQX. The signal required Ca2+ influx through L-type Ca2+ channel and intracellular Ca2+ elevations. PKC activation was involved in the glutamate-induced reduction of Kv7 channel surface expression. Moreover, a significant reduction of Kv7 channel surface expression occurred following glycine-induced "chem"-LTP in vitro and hippocampus-dependent behavioral learning training in vivo. These results demonstrated that activity-dependent reduction of Kv7 channel surface expression through activation of ionotropic glutamate receptors (iGluRs)/Ca2+/PKC signaling pathway might be an important molecular mechanism for regulation of neuronal excitability and synaptic plasticity.
Adenosine A2A receptor (A2AR) stimulation enhances mitochondrial metabolism and mitigates reactive oxygen species-mediated mitochondrial injury. In OA chondrocytes, there is diminished mitochondrial production of ATP and diminished extracellular adenosine resulting in diminished adenosine A2A receptor (A2AR) stimulation and altered chondrocyte homeostasis which contributes to the pathogenesis of OA. We tested the hypothesis that A2AR stimulation maintains or enhances mitochondrial function in chondrocytes. The effect of A2AR signaling on mitochondrial health and function was determined in primary murine chondrocytes, a human chondrocytic cell line (T/C-28a2), primary human chondrocytes, and a murine model of OA by transmission electron microscopy analysis, mitochondrial stress testing, confocal live imaging for mitochondrial inner membrane polarity, and immunohistochemistry. In primary murine chondrocytes from A2AR−/− null mice, which develop spontaneous OA by 16 weeks, there is mitochondrial swelling, dysfunction, and reduced mitochondrial content with increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) burden and diminished mitophagy, as compared to chondrocytes from WT animals. IL-1-stimulated T/C-28a2 cells treated with an A2AR agonist had reduced ROS burden with increased mitochondrial dynamic stability and function, findings which were recapitulated in primary human chondrocytes. In an obesity-induced OA mouse model, there was a marked increase in mitochondrial oxidized material which was markedly improved after intraarticular injections of liposomal A2AR agonist. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that A2AR ligation is mitoprotective in OA.
Adenosine Receptor A2B Negatively Regulates Cell Migration in Ovarian Carcinoma Cells. The purinergic system is fundamental in the tumor microenvironment, since it regulates tumor cell interactions with the immune system, as well as growth and differentiation in autocrine-paracrine responses. Here, we investigated the role of the adenosine A2B receptor (A2BR) in ovarian carcinoma-derived cells’ (OCDC) properties. From public databases, we documented that high A2BR expression is associated with a better prognostic outcome in ovarian cancer patients. In vitro experiments were performed on SKOV-3 cell line to understand how A2BR regulates the carcinoma cell phenotype associated with cell migration. RT-PCR and Western blotting revealed that the ADORA2B transcript (coding for A2BR) and A2BR were expressed in SKOV-3 cells. Stimulation with BAY-606583, an A2BR agonist, induced ERK1/2 phosphorylation, which was abolished by the antagonist PSB-603. Pharmacological activation of A2BR reduced cell migration and actin stress fibers; in agreement, A2BR knockdown increased migration and enhanced actin stress fiber expression. Furthermore, the expression of E-cadherin, an epithelial marker, increased in BAY-606583-treated cells. Finally, cDNA microarrays revealed the pathways mediating the effects of A2BR activation on SKOV-3 cells. Our results showed that A2BR contributed to maintaining an epithelial-like phenotype in OCDC and highlighted this purinergic receptor as a potential biomarker.
Adenovirus type 36 regulates adipose stem cell differentiation and glucolipid metabolism through the PI3K/Akt/FoxO1/PPARγ signaling pathway. Background: This study aims to investigate the molecular mechanism of Adenovirus type 36 (Ad36) in adipocyte differentiation and glucolipid metabolism. Methods: Rat obesity model was established by Ad36 infection and high-fat diet, respectively. Comparison of the body weight, clinical biochemical indicators, insulin sensitivity and lipid heterotopic deposition between these two models was performed. Ad36-induced adipocyte in vitro model was also established. The binding rate of FoxO1, PPARγ and its target gene promoter was detected using ChIP. The mRNA and protein expression levels of PPARγ and downstream target genes were detected by RT-PCR and Western blot, respectively. Oil red O staining was used to measure differentiation into adipocyte. Wortmannin (WM), inhibitor of PI3K, was used to act on Ad36-induced hADSCs. Results: Ad36-induced obese rats did not exhibit disorders in blood glucose and blood TG, insulin resistance and lipid ectopic deposition. The expression of Adipoq, Lpin1 and Glut4 in the adipose tissue increased. Oil red O staining showed that Ad36 induced the differentiation of hAMSCs into human adipocytes in vitro. During this process, the binding rate of FoxO1 and PPARγ promoter regions was weakened. However, the binding rate of the transcription factor PPARγ to its target genes Acc, Adipoq, Lpin1 and Glut4 was enhanced, and thus increased the protein expression of P-FoxO1, PPARγ2, ACC, LPIN1, GLUT4 and ADIPOQ. The PI3K inhibitor Wortmannin reduced the expression of P-Akt, P-FoxO1 and PPARγ2, thereby inhibiting adipogenesis of hADSC. Conclusion: Ad36 may promote fatty acid and triglyceride synthesis, and improve insulin sensitivity by affecting the PI3K/Akt/FoxO1/PPARγ signaling pathway.
Akt/hypoxia-inducible factor-1α signaling deficiency compromises skin wound healing in a type 1 diabetes mouse model. The aim of the present study was to investigate the mechanisms for impaired skin wound healing in subjects with diabetes. Type 1 diabetes (T1DM) was induced in BALB/c mice using streptozotocin. One month after the establishment of the T1DM mouse model, a wound was formed on the back of the mice, and tissues from the wounds and the margins were collected on days 0, 3, 7 and 10. Protein levels of cluster of differentiation 31 (CD31) were detected using immunohistochemistry, and the mRNA levels of Akt, hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (Hif-1α), vascular endothelial growth factor (Vegf), VEGF receptor 2 (Vegfr2), stromal cell-derived growth factor-1α (Sdf-1α) and CXC chemokine receptor 4 (Cxcr4) were determined using reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction analysis. The corresponding protein levels were determined using western blotting. The skin wound healing rate in the T1DM mice was significantly lower than that in the control mice, and the protein level of CD31 in the wounded skin of the T1DM mice was significantly decreased. Furthermore, the overall mRNA levels of Akt, Hif-1α, Vegf, Vegfr2, Sdf-1α and Cxcr4 in the T1DM mice were significantly lower than those in the control mice, and similar trends were observed in the protein levels. In conclusion, skin wound healing was impaired in the T1DM mice, and this may have been caused by a deficiency of Akt/HIF-1α and downstream signaling, as well as delayed angiogenesis.
Allele-specific SHAPE-MaP assessment of the effects of somatic variation and protein binding on mRNA structure. The impact of inherited and somatic mutations on messenger RNA (mRNA) structure remains poorly understood. Recent technological advances that leverage next-generation sequencing to obtain experimental structure data, such as SHAPE-MaP, can reveal structural effects of mutations, especially when these data are incorporated into structure modeling. Here, we analyze the ability of SHAPE-MaP to detect the relatively subtle structural changes caused by single-nucleotide mutations. We find that allele-specific sorting greatly improved our detection ability. Thus, we used SHAPE-MaP with a novel combination of clone-free robotic mutagenesis and allele-specific sorting to perform a rapid, comprehensive survey of noncoding somatic and inherited riboSNitches in two cancer-associated mRNAs, TPT1 and LCP1. Using rigorous thermodynamic modeling of the Boltzmann suboptimal ensemble, we identified a subset of mutations that change TPT1 and LCP1 RNA structure, with approximately 14% of all variants identified as riboSNitches. To confirm that these in vitro structures were biologically relevant, we tested how dependent TPT1 and LCP1 mRNA structures were on their environments. We performed SHAPE-MaP on TPT1 and LCP1 mRNAs in the presence or absence of cellular proteins and found that both mRNAs have similar overall folds in all conditions. RiboSNitches identified within these mRNAs in vitro likely exist under biological conditions. Overall, these data reveal a robust mRNA structural landscape where differences in environmental conditions and most sequence variants do not significantly alter RNA structural ensembles. Finally, predicting riboSNitches in mRNAs from sequence alone remains particularly challenging; these data will provide the community with benchmarks for further algorithmic development.
Alteration of B cell subsets and the receptor for B cell activating factor (BAFF) in paediatric patients with type 1 diabetes. Background Lately, mounting evidence has shown that B cells play an important role in the pathogenesis of type 1 diabetes (T1D). Here, we present alterations in B cell subsets including BAFF receptor (BAFFR) expression in cohorts of patients with type 1 diabetes (T1D) and their relatives. Patients and methods B cells were studied in 438 patients with T1D (158 at disease onset and 280 with long-term disease), 136 first-degree relatives and 53 healthy controls. The B cell panel included transitional, naïve, MZ-like, switched memory B cells and plasmablasts. We also measured serum BAFF levels as well as BAFFR expression on both B and T cells. Moreover, the effect of BAFF on T and B lymphocytes was analysed in vitro. Results We observed a significant decrease in the proportion of transitional B cells in the patients with T1D, accompanied by an increased proportion of plasmablasts, especially in recent-onset patients and their relatives. While the BAFF serum levels did not differ in the patients with T1D, BAFFR-expressing B and especially T cell numbers were reduced in the T1D cohort, with the exception of patients with recent-onset disease who exhibited a significant increase in the number of BAFFR-expressing T cells. T cell activation and B cell proliferation were more pronounced after activation with BAFF in the T1D cohort compared to controls. Conclusion The B cell panel in patients with T1D is characterized by significantly reduced populations of B cells in their early stages of development with a shift towards plasma cells. The dynamics of BAFFR-expressing B and T cells and the more pronounced responsiveness of the T1D T cells to BAFF point to the role of BAFF and T and B cell cooperation in the development of T1D.
Altered extracellular mRNA communication in postpartum depression is associated with decreased autophagy. We investigated whether extracellular RNA communication, which is a recently discovered mode of intercellular communication that is involved in a variety of important biological processes including pregnancy, is associated with postpartum depression (PPD). Extracellular RNA communication is increased during pregnancy and is involved in embryo implantation, uterine spiral artery remodeling, parturition, preterm birth, immunity, and the inflammatory response. Since immune anomalies are associated with PPD, we characterized the mRNA content of extracellular vesicles (EV) in a cohort of prospectively collected blood plasma samples at six time-points throughout pregnancy and the postpartum (2nd trimester, 3rd trimester, 2 weeks postpartum, 6 weeks postpartum, 3 months postpartum, and 6 months postpartum) in an academic medical setting from women who went on to develop PPD (N = 7, defined as euthymic in pregnancy with postpartum-onset depressive symptoms assessed by Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale ≥13 at any postpartum time point) and matched unaffected controls (N = 7, defined as euthymic throughout pregnancy and postpartum). Blood samples were available for all participants at the T2 and W6 timepoints, with fewer samples available at other time points. This analysis revealed that EV mRNA levels during pregnancy and the postpartum period were extensively altered in women who went on to develop PPD. Gene set enrichment analysis revealed that mRNAs associated with autophagy were decreased in PPD cases. In contrast, EV mRNAs from ribosomes and mitochondria, two organelles that are selectively targeted by autophagy, were elevated in PPD cases. Cellular deconvolution analysis discovered that EV mRNAs associated with PPD originated from monocytes and macrophages. Quantitative PCR analysis for four relevant genes in another cohort replicated these findings and confirmed that extracellular RNA levels are altered in PPD. We demonstrate that EV mRNA communication is robustly altered during pregnancy and the postpartum period in women who go on to develop PPD. Our work also establishes a direct link between reduced autophagy and PPD in patient samples. These data warrant investigating the feasibility of developing EV mRNA based biomarkers and therapeutic agents for PPD.
Altered genome-wide methylation in endometriosis. Endometriosis has been associated with aberrant methylation in the eutopic endometrium. Using a genome-wide methylation array, we identified differentially methylated genes in the endometrium from women with or without endometriosis. One hundred and twenty genes were significantly altered by >1.5-fold. In all, 59 genes were significantly hypermethylated and 61 genes were significantly hypomethylated. Changes in gene expression associated with the altered methylation status were validated using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. A limited number of candidate genes are selectively methylated in the endometrium of women with endometriosis. Several genes not previously associated with endometriosis are aberrantly methylated and expressed. These include O-6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase, dual specificity phosphatase 22, cell division cycle associated 2, inhibitor of DNA binding 2, retinoblastoma binding protein 7, bone morphogenetic protein receptor, type 1B, tumor necrosis factor receptor 1B, zinc finger protein receptor 681, immunoglobulin superfamily, member 21, and tumor protein 73. Aberrant DNA methylation and gene expression of these genes may contribute to abnormal regulation of endometrial cell proliferation and function in women.
Altering chromatin methylation patterns and the transcriptional network involved in regulation of hematopoietic stem cell fate. Hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) are quiescent cells with self-renewal capacity and potential multilineage development. Various molecular regulatory mechanisms such as epigenetic modifications and transcription factor (TF) networks play crucial roles in establishing a balance between self-renewal and differentiation of HSCs. Histone/DNA methylations are important epigenetic modifications involved in transcriptional regulation of specific lineage HSCs via controlling chromatin structure and accessibility of DNA. Also, TFs contribute to either facilitation or inhibition of gene expression through binding to enhancer or promoter regions of DNA. As a result, epigenetic factors and TFs regulate the activation or repression of HSCs genes, playing a central role in normal hematopoiesis. Given the importance of histone/DNA methylation and TFs in gene expression regulation, their aberrations, including changes in HSCs-related methylation of histone/DNA and TFs (e.g., CCAAT-enhancer-binding protein α, phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on the chromosome 10, Runt-related transcription factor 1, signal transducers and activators of transcription, and RAS family proteins) could disrupt HSCs fate. Herewith, we summarize how dysregulations in the expression of genes related to self-renewal, proliferation, and differentiation of HSCs caused by changes in epigenetic modifications and transcriptional networks lead to clonal expansion and leukemic transformation.
An Inverse Relationship Between c-Kit/CD117 and mTOR Confers NK Cell Dysregulation Late After Severe Injury. Major trauma-induced tissue injury causes a dysregulation of the immune system. Severe systemic inflammation occurs early after the insult. Later on, an enhanced risk for life-threatening opportunistic infections develops that culminates at the end of the first week after trauma. CD56bright Natural killer (NK) cells play a key role in the defense against infection due to their rapid release of Interferon (IFN) γ in response to Interleukin (IL) 12. NK cells are impaired in IFN-γ synthesis after severe injury due to a disturbed IL-12/IFN-γ axis. Thereby, a circulating factor mediates extrinsic suppression of NK cells. Yet unknown cell-intrinsic mechanisms manifest by day 8 after trauma and render NK cells unresponsive to stimulatory cytokines. In the present study, we investigated the origin of such late NK cell-intrinsic suppression after major trauma. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) were isolated from patients 8 day after severe injury and from healthy control subjects and were stimulated with inactivated Staphylococcus aureus. The expression of diverse cytokine receptors, intracellular signaling molecules, and the secretion of IFN-γ by CD56bright NK cells were examined. After stimulation with S. aureus, NK cells from patients expressed enhanced levels of c-kit/CD117 that inversely correlated with IFN-γ synthesis and IL-12 receptor (IL-12R) β2 expression. Supplementation with IL-15 and inhibition of the transforming growth factor receptor (TGF-βR) I reduced CD117 expression and increased the level of IL-12Rβ2 and IFN-γ. NK cells from patients showed reduced phosphorylation of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR). Addition of IL-15 at least partly restored mTOR phosphorylation and increased IL-12Rβ2 expression. The reduced mTOR phosphorylation after severe injury was cell-intrinsic as it was not induced by serum factors. Inhibition of mTOR in purified NK cells from healthy donors by rapamycin decreased the synthesis of IFN-γ. Thus, impaired mTOR phosphorylation in response to a microbial challenge contributes to the cell-intrinsic mechanisms that underlie NK cell dysregulation after trauma. Restoration of the mTOR phosphorylation capacity along with inhibition of the TGF-βRI signaling in NK cells after severe injury might improve the immune defense against opportunistic infections.
An intergenic non-coding RNA promoter required for histone modifications in the human β-globin chromatin domain. Transcriptome analyses show a surprisingly large proportion of the mammalian genome is transcribed; much more than can be accounted for by genes and introns alone. Most of this transcription is non-coding in nature and arises from intergenic regions, often overlapping known protein-coding genes in sense or antisense orientation. The functional relevance of this widespread transcription is unknown. Here we characterize a promoter responsible for initiation of an intergenic transcript located approximately 3.3 kb and 10.7 kb upstream of the adult-specific human β-globin genes. Mutational analyses in β-YAC transgenic mice show that alteration of intergenic promoter activity results in ablation of H3K4 di- and trimethylation and H3 hyperacetylation extending over a 30 kb region immediately downstream of the initiation site, containing the adult δ- and β-globin genes. This results in dramatically decreased expression of the adult genes through position effect variegation in which the vast majority of definitive erythroid cells harbor inactive adult globin genes. In contrast, expression of the neighboring ϵ- and γ-globin genes is completely normal in embryonic erythroid cells, indicating a developmentally specific variegation of the adult domain. Our results demonstrate a role for intergenic non-coding RNA transcription in the propagation of histone modifications over chromatin domains and epigenetic control of β-like globin gene transcription during development.
An oxidative DNA “damage” and repair mechanism localized in the VEGF promoter is important for hypoxia-induced VEGF mRNA expression. In hypoxia, mitochondria-generated reactive oxygen species not only stimulate accumulation of the transcriptional regulator of hypoxic gene expression, hypoxia inducible factor-1 (Hif-1), but also cause oxidative base modifications in hypoxic response elements (HREs) of hypoxia-inducible genes. When the hypoxia-induced base modifications are suppressed, Hif-1 fails to associate with the HRE of the VEGF promoter, and VEGF mRNA accumulation is blunted. The mechanism linking base modifications to transcription is unknown. Here we determined whether recruitment of base excision DNA repair (BER) enzymes in response to hypoxia-induced promoter modifications was required for transcription complex assembly and VEGF mRNA expression. Using chromatin immunoprecipitation analyses in pulmonary artery endothelial cells, we found that hypoxia-mediated formation of the base oxidation product 8-oxoguanine (8-oxoG) in VEGF HREs was temporally associated with binding of Hif-1a and the BER enzymes 8-oxoguanine glycosylase 1 (Ogg1) and redox effector factor-1 (Ref-1)/apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease 1 (Ape1) and introduction of DNA strand breaks. Hif-1 a colocalized with HRE sequences harboring Ref-1/Ape1, but not Ogg1. Inhibition of BER by small interfering RNA-mediated reduction in Ogg1 augmented hy-poxia-induced 8-oxoG accumulation and attenuated Hif-1 a and Ref-1/Ape1 binding to VEGF HRE sequences and blunted VEGF mRNA expression. Chromatin immunoprecipitation-sequence analysis of 8-oxoG distribution in hypoxic pulmonary artery endothelial cells showed that most of the oxidized base was localized to promoters with virtually no overlap between normoxic and hypoxic data sets. Transcription of genes whose promoters lost 8-oxoG during hypoxia was reduced, while those gaining 8-oxoG was elevated. Collectively, these findings suggest that the BER pathway links hypoxia-induced introduction of oxidative DNA modifications in promoters of hypoxia-inducible genes to transcriptional activation.
An unmethylated 3′ promoter-proximal region is required for efficient transcription initiation. The promoter regions of approximately 40% of genes in the human genome are embedded in CpG islands, CpG-rich regions that frequently extend on the order of one kb 3′ of the transcription start site (TSS) region. CpGs 3′ of the TSS of actively transcribed CpG island promoters typically remain methylation-free, indicating that maintaining promoter-proximal CpGs in an unmethylated state may be important for efficient transcription. Here we utilize recombinase-mediated cassette exchange to introduce a Moloney Murine Leukemia Virus (MoMuLV)-based reporter, in vitro methylated 1 kb downstream of the TSS, into a defined genomic site. In a subset of clones, methylation spreads to within ̃320 bp of the TSS, yielding a dramatic decrease in transcript level, even though the promoter/TSS region remains unmethylated. Chromatin immunoprecipitation analyses reveal that such promoter-proximal methylation results in loss of RNA polymerase II and TATA-box-binding protein (TBP) binding in the promoter region, suggesting that repression occurs at the level of transcription initiation. While DNA methylation-dependent trimethylation of H3 lysine (K)9 is confined to the intragenic methylated region, the promoter and downstream regions are hypo-acetylated on H3K9/K14. Furthermore, DNase I hypersensitivity and methylase-based single promoter analysis (M-SPA) experiments reveal that a nucleosome is positioned over the unmethylated TATA-box in these clones, indicating that dense DNA methylation downstream of the promoter region is sufficient to alter the chromatin structure of an unmethylated promoter. Based on these observations, we propose that a DNA methylation-free region extending several hundred bases downstream of the TSS may be a prerequisite for efficient transcription initiation. This model provides a biochemical explanation for the typical positioning of TSSs well upstream of the 3′ end of the CpG islands in which they are embedded.
Analysis of KLF4 regulated genes in cancer cells reveals a role of DNA methylation in promoter- enhancer interactions. Recent studies have revealed an unexpected role of DNA methylation at promoter regions in transcription activation. However, whether DNA methylation at enhancer regions activates gene expression and influences cellular functions remains to be determined. In this study, by employing the transcription factor krÜppel-like factor 4 (KLF4) that binds to methylated CpGs (mCpGs), we investigated the molecular outcomes of the recruitment of KLF4 to mCpGs at enhancer regions in human glioblastoma cells. First, by integrating KLF4 ChIP-seq, whole-genome bisulfite sequence, and H3K27ac ChIP-seq datasets, we found 1,299 highly methylated (β\xa0>0.5) KLF4 binding sites, three-quarters of which were located at putative enhancer regions, including gene bodies and intergenic regions. In the meantime, by proteomics, we identified 16 proteins as putative targets upregulated by KLF4-mCpG binding at enhancer regions. By chromosome conformation capture (3C) analysis, we demonstrated that KLF4 bound to methylated CpGs at the enhancer regions of the B-cell lymphocyte kinase (BLK) and Lim domain only protein 7 (LMO7) genes, and activated their expression via 3D chromatin loop formation with their promoter regions. Expression of mutant KLF4, which lacks KLF4 ability to bind methylated DNA, or removal of DNA methylation in enhancer regions by a DNA methyltransferase inhibitor abolished chromatin loop formation and gene expression, suggesting the essential role of DNA methylation in enhancer-promoter interactions. Finally, we performed functional assays and showed that BLK was involved in glioblastoma cell migration. Together, our study established the concept that DNA methylation at enhancer regions interacts with transcription factors to activate gene expression and influence cellular functions.
Analysis of long-range interactions in primary human cells identifies cooperative CFTR regulatory elements. A mechanism by which control DNA elements regulate transcription over large linear genomic distances is by achieving close physical proximity with genes, and looping of the intervening chromatin paths. Alterations of such regulatory 'chromatin looping' systems are likely to play a critical role in human genetic disease at large. Here, we studied the spatial organization of a ≈ 790 kb locus encompassing the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene. Dysregulation of CFTR is responsible for cystic fibrosis, which is the most common lethal genetic disorder in Caucasian populations. CFTR is a relatively large gene of 189 kb with a rather complex tissue-specific and temporal expression profile. We used chromatin conformation at the CFTR locus to identify new DNA sequences that regulate its transcription. By comparing 5C chromatin interaction maps of the CFTR locus in expressing and non-expressing human primary cells, we identified several new contact points between the CFTR promoter and its surroundings, in addition to regions featuring previously described regulatory elements. We demonstrate that two of these novel interacting regions cooperatively increase CFTR expression, and suggest that the new enhancer elements located on either side of the gene are brought together through chromatin looping via CTCF.
Analysis of the Otd-dependent transcriptome supports the evolutionary conservation of CRX/OTX/OTD functions in flies and vertebrates. Homeobox transcription factors of the vertebrate CRX/OTX family play critical roles in photoreceptor neurons, the rostral brain and circadian processes. In mouse, the three related proteins, CRX, OTX1, and OTX2, fulfill these functions. In Drosophila, the single founding member of this gene family, called orthodenticle (otd), is required during embryonic brain and photoreceptor neuron development. We have used global gene expression analysis in late pupal heads to better characterize the post-embryonic functions of Otd in Drosophila. We have identified 61 genes that are differentially expressed between wild type and a viable eye-specific otd mutant allele. Among them, about one-third represent potentially direct targets of Otd based on their association with evolutionarily conserved Otd-binding sequences. The spectrum of biological functions associated with these gene targets establishes Otd as a critical regulator of photoreceptor morphology and phototransduction, as well as suggests its involvement in circadian processes. Together with the well-documented role of otd in embryonic patterning, this evidence shows that vertebrate and fly genes contribute to analogous biological processes, notwithstanding the significant divergence of the underlying genetic pathways. Our findings underscore the common evolutionary history of photoperception-based functions in vertebrates and invertebrates and support the view that a complex nervous system was already present in the last common ancestor of all bilateria.
Analysis of transcriptional regulation of the small leucine rich proteoglycans. Purpose: Small leucine rich proteoglycans (SLRPs) constitute a family of secreted proteoglycans that are important for collagen fibrillogenesis, cellular growth, differentiation, and migration. Ten of the 13 known members of the SLRP gene family are arranged in tandem clusters on human chromosomes 1, 9, and 12. Their syntenic equivalents are on mouse chromosomes 1, 13, and 10, and rat chromosomes 13, 17, and 7. The purpose of this study was to determine whether there is evidence for control elements, which could regulate the expression of these clusters coordinately. Methods: Promoters were identified using a comparative genomics approach and Genomatix software tools. For each gene a set of human, mouse, and rat orthologous promoters was extracted from genomic sequences. Transcription factor (TF) binding site analysis combined with a literature search was performed using MatInspector and Genomatix' BiblioSphere. Inspection for the presence of interspecies conserved scaffold/matrix attachment regions (S/MARs) was performed using ElDorado annotation lists. DNAseI hypersensitivity assay, chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP), and transient transfection experiments were used to validate the results from bioinformatics analysis. Results: Transcription factor binding site analysis combined with a literature search revealed co-citations between several SLRPs and TFs Runx2 and IRF1, indicating that these TFs have potential roles in transcriptional regulation of the SLRP family members. We therefore inspected all of the SLRP promoter sets for matches to IRF factors and Runx factors. Positionally conserved binding sites for the Runt domain TFs were detected in the proximal promoters of chondroadherin (CHAD) and osteomodulin (OMD) genes. Two significant models (two or more transcription factor binding sites arranged in a defined order and orientation within a defined distance range) were derived from these initial promoter sets, the HOX-Runx (homeodomain-Runt domain), and the ETS-FKHD-STAT (erythroblast transformation specific-forkhead-signal transducers and activators of transcription) models. These models were used to scan the genomic sequences of all 13 SLRP genes. The HOX-Runx model was found within the proximal promoter, exon 1, or intron 1 sequences of 11 of the 13 SLRP genes. The ETS-FKHD-STAT model was found in only 5 of these genes. Transient transfections of MG-63 cells and bovine corneal keratocytes with Runx2 isoforms confirmed the relevance of these TFs to expression of several SLRP genes. Distribution of the HOX-Runx and ETS-FKHD-STAT models within 200 kb of genomic sequence on human chromosome 9 and 500 kb sequence on chromosome 12 also were analyzed. Two regions with 3 HOX-Runx matches within a 1,000 bp window were identified on human chromosome 9; one located between OMD and osteoglycin (OGN)/mimecan genes, and the second located upstream of the putative extracellular matrix protein 2 (ECM2) promoter. The intergenic region between OMD and mimecan was shown to coincide with different patterns of DNAse I hypersensitivity sites in MG-63 and U937 cells. ChiP analysis revealed that this region binds Runx2 in U937 cells (mimecan transcript note detectable), but binds Pitx3 in MG-63 cells (expressing high level of mimecan), thereby demonstrating its functional association with mimecan expression. Upon comparing the predictions of S/MARs on the relevant chromosomal context of human chromosomes 9 and 12 and their rodent equivalents, no convincing evidence was found that the tandemly arranged genes build a chromosomal loop. Conclusions: Twelve of 13 known SLRP genes have at least one HOX-Runx module match in their promoter, exon 1, intron 1, or intergenic region. Although these genes are located in different clusters on different chromosomes, the common HOX-Runx module could be the basis for co-regulated expression.
Aneuploidy, stem cells and cancer. Telomeres which protect the individual chromosomes from disintegration, end-to-end fusion and maintain the genomic integrity during the somatic cell divisions play an important role in cellular aging. Aging and cancer development are linked with each other because cancer is considered a group of complex genetic diseases that develop in old cells and, in both, telomere attrition is involved. Numeric chromosome imbalance also known as aneuploidy is the hallmark of most solid tumors, whether spontaneous or induced by carcinogens. We provide evidence in support of the hypothesis that telomere attrition is the earliest genetic alteration responsible for the induction of aneuploidy. Dysfunctional telomeres are highly recombinogenic leading to the formation of dicentric chromosomes. During cell divisions, such complex chromosome alterations undergo breakage fusion bridge cycles and may lead to loss of heterozygosity (LOH) and gene amplification. Furthermore, we have provided evidence in support of the hypothesis that all types of cancer originate in the organ- or tissue-specific stem cells present in a particular organ. Cancer cells and stem cells share many characteristics, such as, self-renewal, migration, and differentiation. Metaphases with abnormal genetic constitution present in the lymphocytes of cancer patients and in some of their asymptomatic family members may have been derived from the organ-specific stem cells. In addition, evidence and discussion has been presented for the existence of cancer-specific stem cells. Successful treatment of cancer, therefore, should be directed towards these cancer stem cells.
Angiotensin II induces fibronectin expression in human peritoneal mesothelial cells via ERK1/2 and p38 MAPK. Background. The renin-angiotensin system has been implicated in the pathogenesis of fibrosis in various organs. However, its involvement in peritoneal fibrosis, a crucial complication of peritoneal dialysis, is unclear. Human peritoneal mesothelial cells (HPMC) play a major role in peritoneal fibrosis by producing extracellular matrix (ECM). However, there is scant data regarding the effect of angiotensin II (Ang II) on ECM expression and signal transduction pathways in HPMC. Methods. The concentration of Ang II in the peritoneal dialysis effluent was measured by radioimmunoassay. We investigated the expression of Ang II type 1 (AT1) and type 2 (AT2) receptors by HPMC. We also examined the effect of Ang II upon fibronectin production by HPMC, and dissected the receptor and intracellular signaling pathways involved. Results. Ang II levels in the peritoneal dialysis effluent at the onset of peritonitis were 30 times higher than baseline levels. HPMC expression of AT1 and AT2 receptors was confirmed at the mRNA and protein level by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (PCR), Western blotting, and immunocytochemistry. Quantitative reverse transcriptase-PCR and Western blotting showed that 10 nmol/L Ang II increased fibronectin mRNA expression followed by secretion of fibronectin protein. This response was completely inhibited by the AT1 receptor antagonist RNH6270, while the AT2 receptor antagonist PD123319 had no effect. Ang II-induced fibronectin expression was mediated by the activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK 1/2) and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38 MAPK), but not c-Jun N-terminal kinase. Conclusion. These results indicate the potential importance of ERK1/2 and p38 MAPK signaling pathways in Ang II-induced fibronectin expression in HPMC, and suggest the therapeutic potential of AT1 receptor blockers in the prevention or treatment of peritoneal fibrosis in patients on peritoneal dialysis.
Annexin 1: Differential expression in tumor and mast cells in human larynx cancer. Annexin 1 protein (ANXA1) expression was evaluated in tumor and mast cells in human larynx cancer and control epithelium. The effect of the exogenous ANXA1 (peptide Ac 2-26) was also examined during the cellular growth of the Hep-2 human larynx epidermoid carcinoma cell line. This peptide inhibited the proliferation of the Hep-2 cells within 144 hr. In surgical tissue specimens from 20 patients with larynx cancer, ultrastructural immunocytochemistry analysis showed in vivo down-regulation of ANXA1 expression in the tumor and increased in mast cells and Hep-2 cells treated with peptide Ac2-26. Combined in vivo and in vitro analysis demonstrated that ANXA1 plays a regulatory role in laryngeal cancer cell growth. We believe that a better understanding of the regulatory mechanisms of ANXA1 in tumor and mast cells may lead to future biological targets for the therapeutic intervention of human larvnx cancer.
Anti-apoptotic wild-type Alzheimer amyloid precursor protein signaling involves the p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase/MEF2 pathway. Alzheimer amyloid precursor protein (APP) effectively protects against apoptosis in neuronal cells under stress, but the mechanisms of this anti-apoptotic effect remain largely unknown. Transcription factors act as critical molecular switches in promoting neuronal survival. The myocyte enhancer factor-2 (MEF2) is a transcription factor, and is known to be necessary for neurogenesis and activity-dependent neuronal survival. This study examined the possible role of MEF2 in the anti-apoptotic signaling pathways activated by APP. We report that expression of wild-type human APP (hAPPwt) but not familial Alzheimer's disease mutant APP (FAD-hAPPmut) in APP-deficient rat B103 cells led to a significant increase in the level of phosphorylated MEF2. This differential phosphorylation was dependent on enhanced activation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38 MAPK). Also, expression of hAPPwt mediated an increase in MEF2 DNA binding affinity that correlated with p38 MAPK-dependent trans-activation of a MEF2-responsive reporter gene. Furthermore, over-expression of dominant negative MEF2 in hAPPwt-expressing cells enhanced staurosporine-induced apoptosis, in contrast MEF2wt enhanced the capacity of hAPPwt to confer resistance to apoptosis. Thus, MEF2 plays a critical role in APP-mediated signaling pathways that inhibit neuronal apoptosis. A model of anti-apoptotic APP signaling is proposed where APP mediates p38 MAPK-dependent phosphorylation and activation of MEF2. Once activated MEF2 regulates neuronal survival by stimulation of MEF2-dependent gene transcriptions. Alteration of this function by mutations in APP and aberrant APP processing could contribute to neuronal degeneration seen in AD.
Anti-fibrotic effects of p53 activation induced by RNA polymerase I inhibitor in primary cardiac fibroblasts. Several lines of studies have indicated that the p53 pathway may have important anti-fibrotic functions. Previously we found that the novel selective RNA polymerase I inhibitor CX-5461 induced a robust response of p53 phosphorylation and activation in vascular smooth muscle cells. In the present study, we characterized the anti-fibrotic effects of CX-5461 in primary cardiac fibroblasts. We showed that CX-5461 suppressed spontaneous and mitogen-stimulated activation, proliferation, and myofibroblast differentiation, at a concentration (1 μM) with no cytotoxicity. The inhibitory effects of CX-5461 were primarily mediated by activation of the p53 pathway rather than limiting the rate of ribosome biogenesis. It was also shown that CX-5461 triggered a non-canonical DNA damage response in cardiac fibroblasts, which acted as the upstream signal leading to p53 activation. Taking these together, we suggest that p53 activation by pharmacological inhibition of Pol I may represent a viable approach to repress the development of cardiac fibrosis.
Antiproliferative function of p27(kip1) is frequently inhibited in highly malignant Burkitt's lymphoma cells. Lack of detectable expression of p27(kip1) cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor has previously been correlated with high degree of malignancy in human breast, colorectal, gastric and small cell lung carcinomas. Here we demonstrate that an inverse correlation between p27(kip1) expression and tumour malignancy also exists in most types of human B cell lymphomas examined. A clear exception was Burkitt's lymphoma (BL), a highly malignant tumour which often expresses high levels of p27(kip1). Analysis of p27(kip1) derived from Burkitt's lymphoma cell lines expressing high levels of p27(kip1), BL40 and BL41, in a cyclin E/cdk2 kinase inhibition assay demonstrated that p27(kip1) is not permanently inactivated since heat treatment can restore the inhibitory activity of p27(kip1). However, p27(kip1) expressed in these two cell lines is largely sequestered in inactive complexes and we have no evidence that c-myc or Epstein-Barr virus are responsible for the sequestration of p27(kip1) in these two cell lines although c-myc and EBV are two oncogenic agents often associated with Burkitt's lymphomas. Interestingly, we observed that high level p27(kip1) expression often correlated with cyclin D3 overexpression both in vivo and in BL cell lines. The majority of p27(kip1) in BL40 cells was complexed with cyclin D3 indicating that overexpressed cyclin D3 may at least be part of the sequestering activity for the inhibitory function of p27(kip1). Furthermore, cyclinD3/cdk4 complex could sequester p27(kip1) in a cyclin E/cdk2 kinase assay in vitro. Finally, we show that cyclin D3 transfected into an inducible p27(kip1) cell line could overcome the G1 arrest mediated by p27(kip1). These results argue that in addition to down-regulation of p27(kip1) expression, some tumour cells can sequester and tolerate the antiproliferative function of p27(kip1). They also suggest a novel role for the overexpression of D-type cyclins as one pathway allowing tumour cells to overcome the antiproliferative function of p27(kip1).
Application of the chemokine-chemokine receptor axis increases the tumor-targeted migration ability of cytokine-induced killer cells in patients with colorectal cancer. Cytokine-induced killer (CIK) cells are a group of heterogeneous immune cells which can be isolated from human peripheral blood mononuclear cells and have demonstrated therapeutic benefit both in hematologic malignancies and solid tumors, including colorectal cancer. However, poor tumor-targeted migration has limited the clinical efficacy of CIK cell treatment. The chemokine-chemokine receptor (CK-CKR) axis serves a role in the tumor-directed trafficking capacity of immune cells. Investigating the relationship between CKR profiles on the surface of CIK cells and chemokine expression levels in the tumor microenvironment may improve CIK cell therapy. In the present study, the spectrum of chemokine expression levels in tumor tissues from patients with colorectal cancer (CRC) and CKR expression profiles in CIK cells obtained from the same individuals with CRC were investigated. The results showed that chemokine expression levels in tumor tissues exhibited variability and cell line heterogeneity. However, the expression levels of a number of chemokines were similar in different CRC donors and cell lines. Expression levels of CXCLL10, CXCL11 and CCL3 were significantly higher in most tumor tissues compared with adjacent normal tissues and highly expressed in most CRC cell lines. In accordance with chemokine expression levels, CKR profiles on the surface of CIK cells also showed donor-to-donor variability. However, concordant expression profiles of CKRs were identified in different patients with CRC. CXCR3 and CXCR4 were highly expressed on the surface of CIK cells through the culture process. Importantly, the expression levels of all CKRs, especially CCR4, CXCR4 and CXCR3, were notably decreased during the course of CIK cell expansion. The changing trend of CKR profiles were not correlated with the chemokine expression profiles in CRC tissues (CCL3, CXCL12 and CXCL10/CXCL11 were highly expressed in CRC tissue). Re-stimulating CIK cells using chemokines (CCL21 and CXCL11) at the proper time point increased corresponding CKR expression levels on the surface of CIK cells and enhance tumor-targeted trafficking in vitro. These results demonstrated that modification of the CK-CKR axis using exogenous recombinant chemokines at the proper time point enhanced CIK cell trafficking ability and improved CIK antitumor effects.
Apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease-1 is associated with angiogenesis and VEGF production via upregulation of COX-2 expression in esophageal cancer tissues. Apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease- 1 (APE-1) is a key enzyme responsible for DNA base excision repair and is also a multifunctional protein such as redox effector for several transcriptional factors. Our study was designed to investigate APE-1 expression and to study its interaction with cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 expression and VEGF production in the esophageal cancer. The expression of APE-1, COX-2, monocyte chemoattractant protein (MCP)-1, CC-chemokine receptor (CCR)2, and VEGF were evaluated by immunohistochemistry in 65 human esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) tissues. Real-time PCR and Western blotting were performed to detect mRNA and protein expression of APE-1 and p-signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) expression in MCP-1-stimulated ESCC cell lines (KYSE 220 and EC-GI-10). siRNA for APE-1 was treated to determine the role of APE-1 in the regulation of COX-2 expression, VEGF production, and antiapoptotic effect against cisplatin. In human ESCC tissues, nuclear localization of APE-1 was observed in 92.3% (60/65) of all tissues. There was a significant relationship (P = 0.029, R = 0.49) between nuclear APE-1 and cytoplasmic COX-2 expression levels in the esophageal cancer tissues. In KYSE 220 and EC-GI-10 cells, MCP-1 stimulation significantly increased mRNA and protein expression of APE-1. Treatment with siRNA for APE-1 significantly inhibited p-STAT3 expression levels in MCP-1-stimulated cells. Furthermore, treatment of siRNA for APE-1 significantly reduced COX-2 expression and VEGF production in MCP-1-stimulated esophageal cancer cell lines. Treatment with APE-1 siRNA significantly increased apoptotic levels in cisplatin-incubated KYSE 220 and EC-GI-10 cells. We concluded that APE-1 is overexpressed and associated with COX-2 expression and VEGF production in esophageal cancer tissues.
Association analysis of rs1695 and rs1138272 variations in GSTP1 gene and breast cancer susceptibility. Background: The glutathione S transferases P1 (GSTP1) is one of the common type of the GSTs family. This gene has several genetic polymorphisms that the rs1695 and rs1138272 are the most common variations in this gene. This study aimed to examine the association of these genetic variations with breast cancer risk which was followed by bioinformatics analysis. Materials and Methods: In a case-control study, 200 participants including 100 women with breast cancer and 100 healthy women were enrolled. After blood sample collection and DNA extraction, the total genomic DNA was extracted from this sample. The SNPeffects online software was employed to evaluate the effects of rs1695 genetic variation on the GSTP1 protein structure. Results: Our data revealed that there is a significant association between rs1695 genetic variation and the risk of breast cancer in homozygote (OR= 3.1532, 95%CI= 1.1072 to 8.9798, p= 0.0315) and allelic (OR= 1.6098, 95%CI= 1.0577 to 2.4500, p= 0.0263) genetic comparisons. This despite the fact that the rs1138272 polymorphism was not associated with breast cancer risk. Our bioinformatics analysis based on WALTZ output showed that the rs1695 polymorphism reduces the amyloid propensity of the GSTP1 enzyme (dWALTZ=-228.00). Conclusions: Based on our findings, the rs1695 genetic variation is a genetic risk factor for breast cancer and it could be considered as a biomarker for screening of susceptible women.
Association of type 2 diabetes susceptibility loci with one-year weight loss in the look AHEAD clinical trial. The importance of lifestyle intervention for the prevention and treatment of type 2 diabetes (T2D) has been underscored by the limited benefit of pharmacologic therapies. We sought to determine whether genetic variants that contribute to T2D risk modify the response of weight and waist circumference to an intensive lifestyle intervention (ILI) in patients with obesity and T2D. Look AHEAD (Action for Health in Diabetes) is a randomized clinical trial comparing an ILI with a control condition on the risk of cardiovascular disease in overweight adults with T2D. We analyzed 28 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) at/near 17 T2D-susceptibility genes in 3,903 consented participants. We genetically characterized the cohort by assessing whether T2D-susceptibility loci were overrepresented compared with a nondiabetic community-based cohort (N = 1,016). We evaluated the association of individual variants and a composite genetic risk score (GRS) with anthropometric traits at baseline and after 1-year of intervention. Look AHEAD subjects carried more T2D-susceptibility alleles than the control population. At baseline, TCF7L2 risk alleles and the highest GRS were associated with lower BMI and waist circumference. Nominally significant genotype-by-intervention interactions were detected for 1-year change in waist circumference with JAZF1, MTNR1B, and IRS1, and BMI with JAZF1. Highest GRS was associated with a greater reduction in waist circumference at year 1, although the variance in change attributable to the GRS was small. This study shows that the genetic burden associated with T2D risk does not undermine the effect of lifestyle intervention and suggests the existence of additional genomic regions, distinct from the T2D-susceptibility loci, which may enhance or mitigate weight loss.
Association study of polymorphisms in miRNAs with T2DM in Chinese population. Accumulated evidence indicates that microRNA (miRNA or miR) is involved in the development of type 2 diabetes (T2DM). Several studies have shown that single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) located in miRNAs are associated with T2DM in Caucasian populations. The association studies of miRNA’s SNPs with T2DM in Asian are rarely reported, and there are distinct genetic differences between Caucasian and Asian populations. The focus of this study, therefore, is the association of T2DM with five SNPs (rs895819 in miR-27a, rs531564 in miR-124a, rs11888095 in miR-128a, rs3820455 in miR-194a and rs2910164 in miR-146a) located in five miRNAs in a Han Chinese population. A total of 738 subjects with T2DM and 610 non-diabetic subjects were genotyped using the TaqMan method. Next, the associations between the five SNPs with T2DM and individual metabolic traits were evaluated. Our data showed that the C allele of rs531564 in miR-124a may protect against T2DM (P=0.009, OR=0.758; 95%CI: 0.616-0.933). Conversely, the C allele of rs2910164 in miR-146a may increase the risk of developing T2DM (P<0.001, OR=1.459; 95%CI: 1.244-1.712). However, these five SNPs did not exhibit significant associations with individual metabolic traits in either the T2DM or non-diabetic groups. Our results revealed that genetic variations in miRNAs were associated with T2DM susceptibility in a Han Chinese population, and these results highlight the need to study the functional effects of these variants in miRNAs on the risk of developing T2DM.
Atlas of Subcellular RNA Localization Revealed by APEX-Seq. We introduce APEX-seq, a method for RNA sequencing based on direct proximity labeling of RNA using the peroxidase enzyme APEX2. APEX-seq in nine distinct subcellular locales produced a nanometer-resolution spatial map of the human transcriptome as a resource, revealing extensive patterns of localization for diverse RNA classes and transcript isoforms. We uncover a radial organization of the nuclear transcriptome, which is gated at the inner surface of the nuclear pore for cytoplasmic export of processed transcripts. We identify two distinct pathways of messenger RNA localization to mitochondria, each associated with specific sets of transcripts for building complementary macromolecular machines within the organelle. APEX-seq should be widely applicable to many systems, enabling comprehensive investigations of the spatial transcriptome. A newly developed technique reveals the subcellular transcriptomes at many landmarks in the nucleus and cytosol and connects mRNA localization to genome architecture, protein location, and local-translation mechanisms.
BCR/ABL regulates expression of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p27kip1 through the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/AKT pathway. Deregulation of cell cycle checkpoints is an almost universal abnormality in human cancers and is most often due to loss-of-function mutations of tumor suppressor genes such as Rb, p53, or p16INK4a. In this study, we demonstrate that BCR/ABL inhibits the expression of a key cell cycle inhibitor, p27Kip1, by signaling through a pathway involving phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K). p27Kip1 is a widely expressed inhibitor of cdk2, an essential cell cycle kinase regulating entry into S phase. We demonstrate that the decrease of p27Kip1 is directly due to BCR/ABL in hematopoietic cells by two different approaches. First, induction of BCR/ABL by a tetracycline-regulated promoter is associated with a reversible down-regulation of p27Kip1. Second, inhibition of BCR/ABL kinase activity with the Abl tyrosine kinase inhibitor STI571 rapidly increases p27Kip1 levels. The PI3K inhibitor LY-294002 blocks the ability of BCR/ABL to induce p27Kip1 down-regulation and inhibits BCR/ABL-induced entry into S phase. The serine/threonine kinase AKT/protein kinase B is a known downstream target of PI3K. Transient expression of an activated mutant of AKT was found to decrease expression of p27Kip1, even when PI3K was inhibited by LY-294002. The mechanism of p27Kip1 regulation is primarily related to protein stability, since inhibition of proteasome activity increased p27Kip1 levels in BCR/ABL-transformed cells, whereas very little change in p27 transcription was found. Overall, these data are consistent with a model in which BCR/ABL suppresses p27Kip1 protein levels through PI3K/AKT, leading to accelerated entry into S phase. This activity is likely to explain in part previous studies showing that activation of PI3K was required for optimum transformation of hematopoietic cells by BCR/ABL in vitro and in vivo.
BRCA1 affects global DNA methylation through regulation of DNMT1. Global DNA hypomethylation at CpG islands coupled with local hypermethylation is a hallmark for breast cancer, yet the mechanism underlying this change remains elusive. In this study, we showed that DNMT1, which encodes a methylation maintenance enzyme, is a transcriptional target of BRCA1. BRCA1 binds to the promoter of the DNMT1 gene through a potential OCT1 site and the binding is required for maintaining a transcriptional active configuration of the promoter in both mouse and human cells. We further demonstrated that impaired function of BRCA1 leads to global DNA hypomethylation, loss of genomic imprinting, and an open chromatin configuration in several types of tissues examined in a BRCA1 mutant mouse model at premaligant stages. BRCA1 deficiency is also associated with significantly increased expression levels of several protooncogenes, including c-Fos, Ha-Ras, and c-Myc, with a higher expression in tumors, while premalignant mammary epithelial cells displayed an intermediate state between tumors and controls. In human clinical samples, reduced expression of BRCA1 correlates with decreased levels of DNMT1, and reduced methylation of CpG islands. Thus, BRCA1 prevents global DNA hypomethylation through positively regulating DNMT1 expression, and this provides one of mechanisms for BRCA1-associated breast cancer formation.
Basic fibroblast growth factor positively regulates hematopoietic development. Recently identified BLast Colony Forming Cells (BL-CFCs) from in vitro differentiated embryonic stem (ES) cells represent the common progenitor of hematopoietic and endothelial cells, the hemangioblast. Access to this initial cell population committed to the hematopoietic lineage provides a unique opportunity to characterize hematopoietic commitment events. Here, we show that BL-CFC expresses the receptor tyrosine kinase, Flk1, and thus we took advantage of the BL-CFC assay, as well as fluorescent activated cell sorter (FACS) analysis for Flk1+ cells to determine quantitatively if mesoderm-inducing factors promote hematopoietic lineage development. Moreover, we have analyzed ES lines carrying targeted mutations for fibroblast growth factor receptor-1 (fgfr1), a receptor for basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), as well as scl, a transcription factor, for their potential to generate BL-CFCs and Flk1+ cells, to further define events leading to hemangioblast development. Our data suggest that bFGF-mediated signaling is critical for the proliferation of the hemangioblast and that cells expressing both Flk1 and SCL may represent the hemangioblast.
Bcl10-controlled Malt1 paracaspase activity is key for the immune suppressive function of regulatory T cells. Regulatory T cells (Tregs) have crucial functions in the inhibition of immune responses. Their development and suppressive functions are controlled by the T cell receptor (TCR), but the TCR signaling mechanisms that mediate these effects remain ill-defined. Here we show that CARD11-BCL10-MALT1 (CBM) signaling mediates TCR-induced NF-κB activation in Tregs and controls the conversion of resting Tregs to effector Tregs under homeostatic conditions. However, in inflammatory milieus, cytokines can bypass the CBM requirement for this differentiation step. By contrast, CBM signaling, in a MALT1 protease-dependent manner, is essential for mediating the suppressive function of Tregs. In malignant melanoma models, acute genetic blockade of BCL10 signaling selectively in Tregs or pharmacological MALT1 inhibition enhances anti-tumor immune responses. Together, our data uncover a segregation of Treg differentiation and suppressive function at the CBM complex level, and provide a rationale to explore MALT1 inhibitors for cancer immunotherapy.
Beta 1-integrin-mediated cell signaling in T lymphocytes. β1-integrins play crucial roles in a variety of cell processes such as adhesion, migration, proliferation, and differentiation of lymphocytes. For understanding the molecular mechanisms of these various biological effects, it may be particularly important to analyze cell signaling through the β1-integrins. Our previous study had shown that PLC-γ, pp125FAK (focal adhesion kinase), pp105, paxillin, p59fyn, p56lck and ERK1/2 are phosphorylated in their tyrosine residues upon engagement of β1-integrins. We identified pp105 as Cas (Crk-associated substrate)-related protein and successfully cloned its cDNA. pp105 is a Cas homologue predominantly expressed in the cells of lymphoid lineage, which led us to designate it as Cas-L. Like p130Cas, Cas-L contains a single SH3 domain and multiple SH2 binding sites (YXXP motif), which is suggested to bind SH2 domains of Crk, Nck, and SHPTP2. Subsequent studies revealed that pp125FAK binds Cas-L on its SH3 domain and phosphorylates its tyrosine residues upon β1-integrin stimulation. Since Cas-L is preferentially expressed in lymphocytes, it is conceivable that Cas-L plays an important role in lymphocyte-specific signals. We have shown that Cas-L is involved in the T-cell receptor (TCR)/CD3 signaling pathway as well as the β1-integrin signaling pathway. Cas-L is transiently phosphorylated following CD3 cross-linking, and tyrosine-phosphorylated Cas-L binds to Crk and C3G. Furthermore, a Cas-L mutant (Cas-LΔSH3), which lacks the binding site for FAK, is still tyrosine-phosphorylated upon CD3 cross-linking, but not upon β1-integrin cross-linking, suggesting that FAK is not involved in CD3-dependent Cas-L phosphorylation. Finally, we have identified a crucial role of Cas-L in β1-integrin-mediated T-cell co-stimulation. β1-integrins have known to provide a co-stimulus for TCR/CD3-driven interleukin-2 production and proliferation of peripheral T-cells. We have found that this co-stimulatory pathway is impaired in the Jurkat T-cell line, and that the expression level of Cas-L is reduced in Jurkat cells compared with peripheral T-cells. The transfection of Cas-L cDNA into Jurkat cells restored the β1-integrin-mediated co-stimulation, while the transfection of Cas-LΔSH3 mutant failed to do so, showing a contrast to the case with CD3-mediated signaling. These results indicate that Cas-L plays a key role through the association and phosphorylation by FAK in the β1-integrin-mediated T-cell co-stimulation. Taken together, Cas-L might be the bi-modal docking protein that assembles the signals through β1-integrins and TCR/CD3, and participates in a variety of T-cell functions.   Ireland Ltd.
Bexarotene Reduces Production of CCL22 From Tumor-Associated Macrophages in Cutaneous T-Cell Lymphoma. Bexarotene is a third-generation retinoid X receptor-selective retinoid that has been approved for use in the treatment of both early and advanced cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL). Although bexarotene has been used for decades in the treatment of CTCL, little is known about the mechanisms underlying its anti-tumor effects in CTCL patients. This study therefore focused on the immunomodulatory effects of bexarotene in vivo using an EL4 mouse T-cell lymphoma model, followed by investigation in CTCL patients treated with bexarotene. Intraperitoneal injection of bexarotene significantly decreased expressions of CCL22, CXCL5, CXCL10, and p19 in the tumor microenvironment. Based on those results, we then evaluated serum levels of CCL22, CXCL5, and CXCL10 in 25 patients with CTCL, revealing that CCL22 was significantly increased in advanced CTCL compared with early CTCL. Next, we evaluated serum levels of CCL22, CXCL5, and CXCL10 in CTCL patients treated with bexarotene. Serum levels of CCL22 were significantly decreased in 80% of CTCL patients who responded to bexarotene therapy. In addition, immunofluorescence staining revealed CD163+ M2 macrophages as the main source of CCL22. Moreover, bexarotene decreased the production of CCL22 by M2 macrophages generated from monocytes in vitro. Our findings suggest that the clinical benefits of bexarotene are partially attributable to suppressive effects on the production of CCL22 by M2-polarized tumor-associated macrophages.
Binding and fusion of extracellular vesicles to the plasma membrane of their cell targets. Exosomes and ectosomes, extracellular vesicles of two types generated by all cells at multivesicular bodies and the plasma membrane, respectively, play critical roles in physiology and pathology. A key mechanism of their function, analogous for both types of vesicles, is the fusion of their membrane to the plasma membrane of specific target cells, followed by discharge to the cytoplasm of their luminal cargo containing proteins, RNAs, and DNA. Here we summarize the present knowledge about the interactions, binding and fusions of vesicles with the cell plasma membrane. The sequence initiates with dynamic interactions, during which vesicles roll over the plasma membrane, followed by the binding of specific membrane proteins to their cell receptors. Membrane binding is then converted rapidly into fusion by mechanisms analogous to those of retroviruses. Specifically, proteins of the extracellular vesicle membranes are structurally rearranged, and their hydrophobic sequences insert into the target cell plasma membrane which undergoes lipid reorganization, protein restructuring and membrane dimpling. Single fusions are not the only process of vesicle/cell interactions. Upon intracellular reassembly of their luminal cargoes, vesicles can be regenerated, released and fused horizontally to other target cells. Fusions of extracellular vesicles are relevant also for specific therapy processes, now intensely investigated.
Binding of the termination factor Nsi1 to its cognate DNA site is sufficient to terminate RNA polymerase I transcription in vitro and to induce termination in vivo. Different models have been proposed explaining how eukaryotic gene transcription is terminated. Recently, Nsi1, a factor involved in silencing of ribosomal DNA (rDNA), was shown to be required for efficient termination of rDNA transcription by RNA polymerase I (Pol I) in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Nsi1 contains Myb-like DNA binding domains and associates in vivo near the 3′ end of rRNA genes to rDNA, but information about which and how DNA sequences might influence Nsi1-dependent termination is lacking. Here, we show that binding of Nsi1 to a stretch of 11 nucleotides in the correct orientation was sufficient to pause elongating Pol I shortly upstream of the Nsi1 binding site and to release the transcripts in vitro. The same minimal DNA element triggered Nsi1-dependent termination of pre-rRNA synthesis using an in vivo reporter assay. Termination efficiency in the in vivo system could be enhanced by inclusion of specific DNA sequences downstream of the Nsi1 binding site. These data and the finding that Nsi1 blocks efficiently only Pol I-dependent RNA synthesis in an in vitro transcription system improve our understanding of a unique mechanism of transcription termination.
Biological roles of adenine methylation in RNA. N6-Methyladenosine (m6A) is one of the most abundant modifications of the epitranscriptome and is found in cellular RNAs across all kingdoms of life. Advances in detection and mapping methods have improved our understanding of the effects of m6A on mRNA fate and ribosomal RNA function, and have uncovered novel functional roles in virtually every species of RNA. In this Review, we explore the latest studies revealing roles for m6A-modified RNAs in chromatin architecture, transcriptional regulation and genome stability. We also summarize m6A functions in biological processes such as stem-cell renewal and differentiation, brain function, immunity and cancer progression.
Blockade of tumor necrosis factor superfamily members CD30 and OX40 abrogates disease activity in murine immune-mediated glomerulonephritis. Co-stimulation is a prerequisite for pathogenic activity in T cell-mediated diseases and has been demonstrated to achieve tolerance in organ-specific autoimmunity as a therapeutic target. Here, we evaluated the involvement of the tumor necrosis factor family members CD30 and OX40 in immune-complex mediated kidney disease. In vitro stimulation and proliferation studies were performed with CD4+ cells from wild type and CD30/OX40 double knock-out (CD30OX40-/-) mice. In vivo studies were performed by induction of nephrotoxic serum nephritis in wild type, CD30OX40- /-, CD30-/-, OX40-/-, reconstituted Rag1-/- and C57Bl/6J mice treated with αCD30L αOX40L antibodies. CD30, OX40 and their ligands were upregulated on various leukocytes in nephrotoxic serum nephritis. CD30OX40-/- mice, but not CD30-/- or OX40-/- mice were protected from nephrotoxic serum nephritis. Similar protection was found in Rag1-/- mice injected with CD4+ T cells from CD30OX40-/- mice compared to Rag1-/- mice injected with CD4+ T cells from wild type mice. Furthermore, CD4+ T cells deficient in CD30OX40-/- displayed decreased expression of CCR6 in vivo. CD30OX40-/- cells were fully capable of differentiating into disease mediating T helper cell subsets, but showed significantly decreased levels of proliferation in vivo and in vitro compared to wild type cells. Blocking antibodies against CD30L and OX40L ameliorated nephrotoxic serum nephritis without affecting pan-effector or memory T cell populations. Thus, our results indicate disease promotion via CD30 and OX40 signaling due to facilitation of exaggerated T cell proliferation and migration of T helper 17 cells in nephrotoxic serum nephritis. Hence, co-stimulation blockade targeting the CD30 and OX40 signaling pathways may provide a novel therapeutic strategy in autoimmune kidney disease.
Boris regulates SOCS3 expression through epigenetic mechanisms in human hepatocellular carcinoma cells. Objective: To study the regulation of suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 (SOCS3) expression bythe brother of the regulator of the imprinted site (BORIS) in hepatocellular carcinoma cell. Methods: The expression of SOCS3 mRNA in HCC cell lines was detected by real-time quantitative PCR (qRT-PCR). The expression of SOCS3 protein in knockdown and overexpression BORIS of HCC cell lines was tested by Western blot. The SOCS3 gene promoter methylation statusin the knockdown and overexpression BORIS of hepatocarcinoma cell lines was detected by using methylation specific PCR (MSP-PCR) method. The potential BORIS binding site of SOCSZ promoter region was found by UCSC database analysis. The enrichment of BORIS in SOCS3 promoter region in endogenous high expression BORIS of HCC cells was evaluated by using chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChlP)-qPCR (ChlP-qPCR). The SOCS3 promoter region histone methylation status in the knockdown and overexpression BORIS of HCC was detected by ChlP-qPCR. Results: The expression of SOCS3 mRNA in hepatocellular carcinoma cells was higher and SOCS3 protein expression was down-regulated or up-regulated in the knockdown or overexpression of BORIS mRNA hepatocarcinoma cells, so BORIS has a positive regulatory effect on SOCS 3 protein expression in hepatocarcinoma cells. MSP - PCR experiments showed that the SOCS 3 promoter in SMMC-7721 and HepG2 cells was unmethylated and knockdown of BORIS did not change the methylation status; the SOCS3 promoter region of Huh7 cells was methylated; after overexpression of BORIS, the SOCS3 promoter region was changed to an unmethylated state; the SOCS3 promoter was unmethylated in HCCLM3, overexpression of BORIS did not alter the methylation status. The ChlP-qPCR assay demonstrated that BORIS specifically binds to the SOCS3 promoter region in HCC cells with high expression of BORIS. Histone methylation assay indicated that knockdown of BORIS reduced BORIS enrichment in the SOCS3 promoter region, with decreasing H3K4 me2 and increasing H3K27 me3 in the region of histone, whereas the overexpress BORIS in HCC cells showed the opposite situation. Conclusion: BORIS plays a role of epigenetic regulationon SOCS3 gene promoter methylation and histone methylation, modulating the expression of SOCS3, and then involved in the development of hepatocellular carcinoma.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor blocks long-term depression in rat visual cortex. 1. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) has been reported to play a role in long-term potentiation (LTP) in hippocampus, but whether it is involved also in long-term depression (LTD) is not yet known. In this study, we tested whether BDNF and its gene family, nerve growth factor (NGF), have any effect on synaptic transmission and LTD in visual cortical slices of young rats. 2. An application of BDNF at the concentration of 20 ng/ml did not significantly change layer II/III field responses evoked by layer IV stimulation at 0.1 Hz, although at 200 ng/ml it enhanced responses. BDNF at 20 ng/ml prevented LTD of field responses from being induced by low- frequency stimulation (1 Hz for 15 min) of layer IV. NGF did not have such effects in the same concentration range as that of BDNF. 3. The action of BDNF was antagonized by K252a, an inhibitor of receptor tyrosine kinases. When K252a alone was applied to slices, LTD of stronger magnitude than in control slices was induced by low-frequency stimulation. 4. These results suggest that endogeneous BDNF may prevent synapses from being depressed by low frequency inputs in the developing visual cortex.
Brain-specific angiogenesis inhibitor 1 (BAI1) is expressed in human cerebral neuronal cells. Brain-specific angiogenesis inhibitor 1 (BAI1) is a p53-target gene specifically expressed in the brain. We examined the distribution of the endogenous BAI1 protein in normal human brain tissue using a polyclonal antibody against the extracellular region of BAI1. Immunohistochemical study demonstrated that BAI1 was expressed in neuronal cells of the cerebral cortex but not in astrocytes. BAI1 protein was localized in the cellular cytoplasm and membrane. It was predominantly localized in the cellular membrane when expressed in cultured cells by means of gene transfection. BAI1 protein may play an important role in neuronal functions such as synapse formation and signal transduction.
Brf1 posttranscriptionally regulates pluripotency and differentiation responses downstream of Erk MAP kinase. AU-rich element mRNA-binding proteins (AUBPs) are key regulators of development, but how they are controlled and what functional roles they play depends on cellular context. Here, we show that Brf1 (zfp36l1), an AUBP from the Zfp36 protein family, operates downstream of FGF/Erk MAP kinase signaling to regulate pluripotency and cell fate decision making in mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs). FGF/Erk MAP kinase signaling up-regulates Brf1, which disrupts the expression of core pluripotency-associated genes and attenuates mESC self-renewal without inducing differentiation. These regulatory effects are mediated by rapid and direct destabilization of Brf1 targets, such as Nanog mRNA. Enhancing Brf1 expression does not compromise mESC pluripotency but does preferentially regulate mesendoderm commitment during differentiation, accelerating the expression of primitive streak markers. Together, these studies demonstrate that FGF signals use targeted mRNA degradation by Brf1 to enable rapid posttranscriptional control of gene expression in mESCs.
Brg1 regulates pro-lipogenic transcription by modulating SREBP activity in hepatocytes. Alteration of hepatic lipid metabolism contributes to a range of human diseases including steatosis. Sterol response element binding protein (SREBP) is the master regulator of lipid metabolism. The epigenetic mechanism whereby SREBP activity is regulated remains incompletely understood. We have previously shown that systemic knockdown of brahma-related gene 1 (Brg1), a chromatin remodeling protein, attenuates steatosis in mice by down-regulating the synthesis of pro-inflammatory mediators. Here we show that hepatocyte conditional Brg1 knockout (HepcKO) mice were largely protected from high-fat diet (HFD) induced steatosis as evidenced by decelerated weight gains, improved insulin sensitivity, ameliorated steatotic injuries, and diminished hepatic inflammation. Brg1 contributed to lipid metabolism by trans-activating the genes involved in fatty acid esterification. Mechanistically, Brg1 interacted with and was recruited by sterol response element binding protein (SREBP1c) to the promoters of SREBP target genes and optimized the chromatin structure to facilitate SREBP1c binding. Therefore, our data have identified a previously unrecognized role for Brg1 in hepatic lipid metabolism by portraying Brg1 as an essential epigenetic co-factor for SREBP1c.
Butyrate induced IGF2 activation correlated with distinct chromatin signatures due to histone modification. Histone modification has emerged as a very important mechanism regulating the transcriptional status of the genome. Insulin- like growth factor 2 (IGF2) is a peptide hormone controlling various cellular processes, including proliferation and apoptosis. H19 gene is closely linked to IGF2 gene, and IGF2 and H19 are reciprocally regulated imprinted genes. The epigenetic signature of H19 promoter (hypermethylation) on the paternal allele plays a vital role in allowing the expression of the paternal allele of IGF2.46 Our previous studies demonstrate that butyrate regulates the expression of IGF2 as well as genes encoding IGF Binding proteins. To obtain further understanding of histone modification and its regulatory potentials in controlling IGF2/H19 gene expression, we investigated the histone modification status of some key histones associated with the expression of IGF2/H19 genes in bovine cells using RNA-seq in combination with Chip-seq technology. A high-resolution map of the major chromatin modification at the IGF2/H19 locus induced by butyrate was constructed to illustrate the fundamental association of the chromatin modification landscape that may play a role in the activation of the IGF2 gene. High-definition epigenomic landscape mapping revealed that IGF2 and H19 have distinct chromatin modification patterns at their coding and promoter regions, such as TSSs and TTSs. Moreover, the correlation between the differentially methylated regions (DMRs) of IGF2/H19 locus and histone modification (acetylation and methylation) indicated that epigenetic signatures/ markers of DNA methylation, histone methylation and histone acetylation were differentially distributed on the expressed IGF2 and silenced H19 genes. Our evidence also suggests that butyrate-induced regional changes of histone acetylation statusin the upstream regulation domain of H19 may be related to the reduced expression of H19 and strong activation of IGF2. Our results provided insights into the mechanism of butyrate-induced loss of imprinting (LOI) of IGF2 and regulation of gene expression by histone modification.
C-Myc is a regulator of the PKD1 gene and PC1-induced pathogenesis. Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) is among the most common monogenic disorders mainly associated with PKD1/PC1 mutations.We show herein that renal regulation in Pc1 dosage-reduced and -increased mouse models converge toward stimulation of c-Myc expression along with β-catenin, delineating c-Myc as a key Pkd1 node in cystogenesis. Enhanced renal c-Myc-induced ADPKD in SBM transgenic mice lead conversely to striking upregulation of Pkd1/Pc1 expression and β-catenin activation, lending credence for reciprocal crosstalk between c-Myc and Pc1. In adult SBM kidneys, c-Myc is strongly enriched on Pkd1 promoter with RNA pol II, consistent with Pkd1 upregulation during cystogenesis. Similar c-Myc direct binding at birth uncovers an equivalent role on Pkd1 regulation during renal developmental program. Concurrent with enriched c-Myc binding, recruitment of active chromatin modifying co-factors by c-Myc at the Pkd1 regulatory region probably opens chromatin to stimulate transcription. A similar transcriptional activation by c-Myc is also likely operant on endogenous human PKD1 gene from our transactivation analysis in response to human c-MYC upregulation. Genetic ablation of c-Myc in Pc1-reduced and -increased mouse models significantly attenuates cyst growth, proliferation and PKD progression. Our study determined a dual role for c-Myc, as a major contributor in Pc1-induced cystogenesis and in a feed-forward regulatory Pkd1-c-Myc loop mechanism that may also prevail in human ADPKD.
C-Myc-dependent transcriptional regulation of cell cycle and nucleosomal histones during oligodendrocyte differentiation. Oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) have the ability to divide or to growth arrest and differentiate into myelinating oligodendrocytes in the developing brain. Due to their high number and the persistence of their proliferative capacity in the adult brain, OPCs are being studied as potential targets for myelin repair and also as a potential source of brain tumors. This study addresses the molecular mechanisms regulating the transcriptional changes occurring at the critical transition between proliferation and cell cycle exit in cultured OPCs. Using bioinformatic analysis of existing datasets, we identified c-Myc as a key transcriptional regulator of this transition and confirmed direct binding of this transcription factor to identified target genes using chromatin immunoprecipitation. The expression of c-Myc was elevated in proliferating OPCs, where it also bound to the promoter of genes involved in cell cycle regulation (i.e. Cdc2) or chromosome organization (i.e. H2afz). Silencing of c-Myc was associated with decreased histone acetylation at target gene promoters and consequent decrease of gene transcripts. c-Myc silencing also induced a global increase of repressive histone methylation and premature peripheral nuclear chromatin compaction while promoting the progression towards differentiation. We conclude that c-Myc is an important modulator of the transition between proliferation and differentiation of OPCs, although its decrease is not sufficient to induce progression into a myelinating phenotype.
C-reactive protein enhances LOX-1 expression in human aortic endothelial cells: Relevance of LOX-1 to C-reactive protein-induced endothelial dysfunction. C-reactive protein (CRP), a characteristic inflammatory marker, is a powerful predictor of cardiovascular events. Recent data suggest that CRP may also promote atherogenesis through inducing endothelial dysfunction. Lectin-like oxidized low-density lipoprotein (oxLDL) receptor-1 (LOX-1) is a newly identified endothelial receptor for oxLDL that plays a pivotal role in oxLDL-induced endothelial dysfunction. Whether CRP may regulate endothelial LOX-1 and induce endothelial dysfunction through this receptor is unknown. In the present study, we studied the in vitro effect of CRP on LOX-1 expression in human aortic endothelial cells (HAECs) and the role of LOX-1 in CRP-induced human monocyte adhesion to endothelium and oxLDL uptake by endothelial cells. Incubation of HAECs with CRP enhanced, in a dose- and time-dependent manner, LOX-1 mRNA and protein levels. Induction of LOX-1 protein was already present at 5 μg/mL CRP and reached a maximum at 25 μg/mL. This effect was reduced by antibodies against CD32/CD64, endothelin-1 (ET-1) and interleukin-6 (IL-6). The extent of stimulation of LOX-1 achieved by CRP was comparable to that elicited by high glucose and IL-6 and remained unchanged in presence of these factors. Finally, CRP increased, through LOX-1, both human monocyte adhesion to endothelial cells and oxLDL uptake by these cells. We conclude that CRP enhances endothelial LOX-1 expression and propose a new mechanism by which CRP may promote endothelial dysfunction, that of inducing LOX-1.
CAMTA1 gene affects the ischemia-reperfusion injury by regulating CCND1. Epigenetic modulations lead to changes in gene expression, including DNA methylation, histone modifications, and noncoding RNAs. In recent years, epigenetic modifications have been related to the pathogenesis of different types of cancer, cardiovascular disease, and other diseases. Emerging evidence indicates that DNA methylation could be associated with ischemic stroke (IS) and plays a role in pathological progression, but the underlying mechanism has not yet been fully understood. In this study, we used human methylation 850K BeadChip to analyze the differences in gene methylation status in the peripheral blood samples from two groups (3 IS patients vs. 3 healthy controls). According to their bioinformatics profiling, we found 278 genes with significantly different methylation levels. Seven genes with the most significant methylation modifications were validated in two expanded groups (100 IS patients vs. 100 healthy controls). The CAMTA1 gene had significantly different methylation changes in patients compared to the controls. To understand the CAMTA1 function in stroke, we generated CAMTA1 knockout in SH-SY5Y cells. RNA seq results in CAMTA1 knockout cells revealed the pathways and gene set enrichments involved in cellular proliferation and cell cycle. Furthermore, a series of experiments demonstrated that in the oxygen-glucose deprivation/re-oxygenation (OGD/R) model system, the expression of cyclin D1, an essential regulator of cell cycle progression, was increased in SH-SY5Y CAMTA1 KO cells. Increasing evidence demonstrated that ischemic stress could inappropriately raise cyclin D1 levels in mature neurons. However, the molecular signals leading to an increased cyclin D1 level are unclear. Our findings demonstrate for the first time that the CAMTA1 gene could regulate cyclin D1 expression and implicate their role in strokes.
CB1 receptor blockade ameliorates hepatic fat infiltration and inflammation and increases Nrf2-AMPK pathway in a rat model of severely uncontrolled diabetes. Previous studies have shown that the CB1 receptor antagonist reverses steatohepatitis and its related features of metabolic syndrome, such as obesity and type 2 diabetes. However, the beneficial effects of CB1 receptor blockade on hepatic steatosis and inflammation have not been investigated independently of its effects on body weight and glycemic control. At 32 weeks of age, OLETF rats were administered with rimonabant (10 mg.kg-1.day-1) by oral gavage for 6 weeks. No significant changes in body weight, OGTT, and serum glucose were observed in spite of rimonabant-decreased food intake. Moreover, there was a significant difference between initial and final body weight, regardless of rimonabant administration, indicating that OLETF rats were severely diabetic rats. Rimonabant administration significantly decreased serum liver enzyme levels such as ALT and AST, hepatic fat accumulation, lipid peroxidation, and cell death as demonstrated by the number of TUNEL-positive cells in severely uncontrolled diabetic OLETF rats. Significant decreases in hepatic gene expression of proinflammatory cytokines (CD11b, F4/80, MCP1, and TNFα), negative inflammatory mediators (SOCS1 and SOCS3), and fibrosis-related proteins (TGFβ, collagen 1, and TIMP1) were found in rimonabant-treated OLETF rats. Six-week administration of rimonabant significantly upregulated mRNA levels of CPT1α and PPARα related to β-oxidation. Moreover, significant increases in Nrf2 gene expression and its downstream genes, NQO1, GSAT, HO-1, and TXNRD1 along with increased AMPK phosphorylation were noted in uncontrolled diabetic rats treated with rimonabant. The observed potent inhibitory effects of CB1 receptor blockade on hepatic fat infiltration and cellular death in severely uncontrolled diabetic rats indicate that CB1 receptor is a possible therapeutic target. Increased Nrf2 and AMPK phosphorylation may play a role in the mechanism of rimonabant action.
CCAAT box is required for the induction of human thrombospondin-1 gene by trichostatin A. Histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors have been reported to inhibit angiogenesis as well as tumor growth. Thrombospondin-1 (TSP1) has been recognized as a potent inhibitor of angiogenesis. Such an action of TSP1 may account for the effect of HDAC inhibitors. In the present study, we investigated the molecular mechanism by which trichostatin A, a HDAC inhibitor, induces the expression of TSP1 gene. Trichostatin A increased both mRNA and protein levels of TSP1 in HeLa cells. Promoter and actinomycin D chase assays showed that trichostatin A-induced TSP1 expression was regulated at the transcriptional level without changing mRNA stability. CCAAT box on the TSP1 promoter was found to primarily mediate the trichostatin A response by deletion and mutation analyses of the TSP1 promoter. Electrophoretic mobility shift assay indicated that CCAAT-binding factor (CBF) was specifically bound to the CCAAT box of TSP1 promoter. Moreover, chromatin immunoprecipitation assay showed that trichostatin A increased the binding of acetylated form of histone H3 to the CCAAT box region of TSP1 promoter. Taken together, these results strongly suggest that trichostatin A activates the transcription of TSP1 gene through the binding of transcription factor CBF to CCAAT box and the enhanced histone acetylation. Thus, the present study provides the clue that the inhibition of angiogenesis by trichostatin A is accomplished through the upregulation of TSP1, the anti-angiogenic factor.
CD8+ T cells cause disability and axon loss in a mouse model of multiple sclerosis. Background: The objective of this study was to test the hypothesis that CD8+ T cells directly mediate motor disability and axon injury in the demyelinated central nervous system. We have previously observed that genetic deletion of the CD8+ T cell effector molecule perforin leads to preservation of motor function and preservation of spinal axons in chronically demyelinated mice. Methodology/Principal Findings: To determine if CD8+ T cells are necessary and sufficient to directly injure demyelinated axons, we adoptively transferred purified perforin-competent CD8+ spinal cord-infiltrating T cells into profoundly demyelinated but functionally preserved perforin-deficient host mice. Transfer of CD8+ spinal cord-infiltrating T cells rapidly and irreversibly impaired motor function, disrupted spinal cord motor conduction, and reduced the number of mediumand large-caliber spinal axons. Likewise, immunodepletion of CD8+ T cells from chronically demyelinated wildtype mice preserved motor function and limited axon loss without altering other disease parameters. Conclusions/Significance: In multiple sclerosis patients, CD8+ T cells outnumber CD4+ T cells in active lesions and the number of CD8+ T cells correlates with the extent of ongoing axon injury and functional disability. Our findings suggest that CD8+ T cells may directly injure demyelinated axons and are therefore a viable therapeutic target to protect axons and motor function in patients with multiple sclerosis.
CDK5 Participates in Amyloid-β Production by Regulating PPARγ Phosphorylation in Primary Rat Hippocampal Neurons. Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (CDK5) in adipose tissue mediates peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPARγ) phosphorylation at Ser273 to inhibit its activity, causing PPARγ target gene expression changes. Among these, insulin-degrading enzyme (IDE) degrades amyloid-β peptide (Aβ), the core pathological product of Alzheimer's disease (AD), whereas β-amyloid cleavage enzyme 1 (BACE1) hydrolyzes amyloid-β protein precursor (AβPP). Therefore, we speculated that CDK5 activity in the brain might participate in Aβ production, thereby functioning as a key molecule in AD pathogenesis. To confirm this hypothesis, we transduced primary rat hippocampal neurons using CDK5-expressing lentiviral vectors. CDK5 overexpression increased PPARγ Ser273 phosphorylation, decreased IDE expression, increased BACE1 and AβPP expression, increased Aβ levels, and induced neuronal apoptosis. The CDK5 inhibitor roscovitine effectively reversed these CDK5 overexpression-mediated effects. Moreover, silencing of the Cdk5 gene via CDK5 shRNA-expressing lentiviral vectors in primary hippocampal neurons did not exert any protective effect against normal neuronal apoptosis, nor were significant effects observed on Aβ levels, PPARγ phosphorylation, or PPARγ target gene expression in the cells. However, Cdk5 gene silencing exhibited a neuroprotective effect in the Aβ-induced AD neuron model by effectively inhibiting the Aβ-induced neuronal apoptosis, PPARγ phosphorylation, PPARγ expression downregulation, and PPARγ target gene expression changes, and reducing Aβ levels. In conclusion, this study demonstrated that CDK5 played an important role in the pathogenesis of AD. Specifically, CDK5 participated in Aβ production by regulating PPARγ phosphorylation. Targeted therapy against CDK5 could effectively reduce and reverse the neurotoxic effects of Aβ and may represent a novel approach for AD treatment.
CDP/Cux stimulates transcription from the DNA polymerase α gene promoter. CDP/Cux (CCAAT-displacement protein/cut homeobox) contains four DNA binding domains, namely, three Cut repeats (CR1, CR2, and CR3) and a Cut homeodomain. CCAAT-displacement activity involves rapid but transient interaction with DNA. More stable DNA binding activity is up-regulated at the G1/S transition and was previously shown to involve an N-terminally truncated isoform, CDP/Cux p110, that is generated by proteolytic processing. CDP/Cux has been previously characterized as a transcriptional repressor. However, here we show that expression of reporter plasmids containing promoter sequences from the human DNA polymerase α (pol α), CAD, and cyclin A genes is stimulated in cotransfections with N-terminally truncated CDP/Cux proteins but not with full-length CDP/Cux. Moreover, expression of the endogenous DNA pol α gene was stimulated following the infection of cells with a retrovirus expressing a truncated CDP/Cux protein. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (CHIP) assays revealed that CDP/Cux was associated with the DNA pol α gene promoter specifically in the S phase. Using linker scanning analyses, in vitro DNA binding, and ChIP assays, we established a correlation between binding of CDP/Cux to the DNA pol α promoter and the stimulation of gene expression. Although we cannot exclude the possibility that stimulation of gene expression by CDP/Cux involved the repression of a repressor, our data support the notion that CDP/Cux participates in transcriptional activation. Notwithstanding its mechanism of action, these results establish CDP/Cux as an important transcriptional regulator in the S phase.
CRISP2, CATSPER1 and PATE1 expression in human asthenozoospermic semen. The etiology of human asthenozoospermia is multifactorial. The need to unveil molecular mechanisms underlying this state of infertility is, thus, impelling. Circular RNAs (circRNAs) are involved in microRNA (miRNA) inhibition by a sponge activity to protect mRNA targets. All to-gether they form the competitive endogenous RNA network (ceRNET). Recently, we have identified differentially expressed circRNAs (DE-circRNAs) in normozoospermic and asthenozoosper-mic patients, associated with high-quality (A-spermatozoa) and low-quality (B-spermatozoa) sperm. Here, we carried out a differential analysis of CRISP2, CATSPER1 and PATE1 mRNA expression in good quality (A-spermatozoa) and low quality (B-spermatozoa) sperm fractions col-lected from both normozoospermic volunteers and asthenozoospermic patients. These sperm fractions are usually separated on the basis of morphology and motility parameters by a density gradient centrifugation. B-spermatozoa showed low levels of mRNAs. Thus, we identified the possible ceRNET responsible for regulating their expression by focusing on circTRIM2, circEPS15 and circRERE. With the idea that motility perturbations could be rooted in quantitative changes of transcripts in sperm, we evaluated circRNA and mRNA modulation in A-spermatozoa and B-spermatozoa after an oral amino acid supplementation known to improve sperm motility. The profiles of CRISP2, CATSPER1 and PATE1 proteins in the same fractions of sperm well matched with the transcript levels. Our data may strengthen the role of circRNAs in asthenozoospermia and shed light on the molecular pathways linked to sperm motility regulation.
CRISPR-Cas9–Mediated Genome Editing Confirms EPDR1 as an Effector Gene at the BMD GWAS-Implicated ‘STARD3NL’ Locus. Genome-wide–association studies (GWASs) have discovered genetic signals robustly associated with BMD, but typically not the precise localization of effector genes. By intersecting genome-wide promoter-focused Capture C and assay for transposase-accessible chromatin using sequencing (ATAC-seq) data generated in human mesenchymal progenitor cell (hMSC)-derived osteoblasts, consistent contacts were previously predicted between the EPDR1 promoter and multiple BMD-associated candidate causal variants at the ‘STARD3NL’ locus. RNAi knockdown of EPDR1 expression in hMSC-derived osteoblasts was shown to lead to inhibition of osteoblastogenesis. To fully characterize the physical connection between these putative noncoding causal variants at this locus and the EPDR1 gene, clustered regularly interspaced short-palindromic repeat Cas9 endonuclease (CRISPR-Cas9) genome editing was conducted in hFOB1.19 cells across the single open-chromatin region harboring candidates for the underlying causal variant, rs1524068, rs6975644, and rs940347, all in close proximity to each other. RT-qPCR and immunoblotting revealed dramatic and consistent downregulation of EPDR1 specifically in the edited differentiated osteoblast cells. Consistent with EPDR1 expression changes, alkaline phosphatase staining was also markedly reduced in the edited differentiated cells. Collectively, CRISPR-Cas9 genome editing in the hFOB1.19 cell model supports previous observations, where this regulatory region harboring GWAS-implicated variation operates through direct long-distance physical contact, further implicating a key role for EPDR1 in osteoblastogenesis and BMD determination.
CRL4WDR23-Mediated SLBP Ubiquitylation Ensures Histone Supply during DNA Replication. To maintain genome integrity and epigenetic information, mammalian cells must carefully coordinate the supply and deposition of histones during DNA replication. Here we report that the CUL4 E3 ubiquitin ligase complex CRL4WDR23 directly regulates the stem-loop binding protein (SLBP), which orchestrates the life cycle of histone transcripts including their stability, maturation, and translation. Lack of CRL4WDR23 activity is characterized by depletion of histones resulting in inhibited DNA replication and a severe slowdown of growth in human cells. Detailed analysis revealed that CRL4WDR23 is required for efficient histone mRNA 3' end processing to produce mature histone mRNAs for translation. CRL4WDR23 binds and ubiquitylates SLBP in vitro and in vivo, and this modification activates SLBP function in histone mRNA 3' end processing without affecting its protein levels. Together, these results establish a mechanism by which CUL4 regulates DNA replication and possible additional chromatin transactions by controlling the concerted expression of core histones. CUL4 is essential for maintaining chromatin integrity. Brodersen  identify histone expression regulator SLBP as a ubiquitylation target of CRL4WDR23 E3 ubiquitin ligase. CRL4WDR23 functionally ubiquitylates SLBP to activate histone mRNA processing during S phase and ensures unperturbed histone supply during DNA replication.
CRY2 missense mutations suppress P53 and enhance cell growth. Disruption of circadian rhythms increases the risk of several types of cancer. Mammalian cryptochromes (CRY1 and CRY2) are circadian transcriptional repressors that are related to DNA-repair enzymes. While CRYs lack DNA-repair activity, they modulate the transcriptional response to DNA damage, and CRY2 can promote SKP1 cullin 1–F-box (SCF)FBXL3-mediated ubiquitination of c-MYC and other targets. Here, we characterize five mutations in CRY2 observed in human cancers in The Cancer Genome Atlas. We demonstrate that two orthologous mutations of mouse CRY2 (D325H and S510L) accelerate the growth of primary mouse fibroblasts expressing high levels of c-MYC. Neither mutant affects steady-state levels of overexpressed c-MYC, and they have divergent impacts on circadian rhythms and on the ability of CRY2 to interact with SCFFBXL3. Unexpectedly, stable expression of either CRY2 D325H or of CRY2 S510L robustly suppresses P53 target-gene expression, suggesting that this may be a primary mechanism by which they influence cell growth.
CSF1 Is a Novel p53 Target Gene Whose Protein Product Functions in a Feed-Forward Manner to Suppress Apoptosis and Enhance p53-Mediated Growth Arrest. The p53 tumor suppressor gene has a common polymorphism at codon 72 that alters its function. We previously reported that the proline 72 polymorphic variant of p53 (P72) demonstrates increased ability to transactivate a subset of genes, relative to arginine 72 (R72); one of these genes is macrophage colony stimulating factor (CSF1). At present, the mechanism(s) underlying the increased transcriptional activity of P72 toward genes like CSF1 have not been completely elucidated. Additionally, the consequences of increased transcription of genes like CSF1 by the P72 variant to the downstream p53 pathway are unknown. In this report, we address these issues. We show that the CSF1 gene contains a conserved binding site for p53, and interestingly that the P72 variant shows increased ability to bind to this site. Moreover, we show that increased CSF1/CSF1R signaling in P72 cells feeds back on the p53 pathway to enhance p53 phosphorylation, levels, and transactivation of target genes, particularly the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21 (CDKN1A). This leads to an increase in p53-mediated growth arrest, along with a concomitant decrease in apoptosis. Notably, the CSF1/CSF1R signaling axis is overexpressed in several epithelial cancers, and there is clinical evidence that this pathway plays a role in radio-resistance of some cancers. We show that cells expressing CSF1 and CSF1R are indeed radio-resistant, and further, that this effect requires p53. These combined data are the first to implicate the CSF1/CSF1R pathway in the decision between p53-mediated growth arrest and apoptosis. They are also the first to highlight a cytokine as influential in cell fate determined by p53 in epithelial cells. Finally, these data may explain the association of the P72 variant and the CSF1/CSF1R pathway with increased senescence and radio-resistance in some epithelial tumor types.
CSF1 overexpression has pleiotropic effects on microglia in vivo. Macrophage colony stimulating factor (CSF1) is a cytokine that is upregulated in several diseases of the central nervous system (CNS). To examine the effects of CSF1 overexpression on microglia, transgenic mice that overexpress CSF1 in the glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) compartment were generated. CSF1 overexpressing mice have increased microglial proliferation and increased microglial numbers compared with controls. Treatment with PLX3397, a small molecule inhibitor of the CSF1 receptor CSF1R and related kinases, decreases microglial numbers by promoting microglial apoptosis in both CSF1 overexpressing and control mice. Microglia in CSF1 overexpressing mice exhibit gene expression profiles indicating that they are not basally M1 or M2 polarized, but they do have defects in inducing expression of certain genes in response to the inflammatory stimulus lipopolysaccharide. These results indicate that the CSF1 overexpression observed in CNS pathologies likely has pleiotropic influences on microglia. Furthermore, small molecule inhibition of CSF1R has the potential to reverse CSF1-driven microglial accumulation that is frequently observed in CNS pathologies, but can also promote apoptosis of normal microglia.
CYP3A4∗1G regulates CYP3A4 intron 10 enhancer and promoter activity in an allelicdependent manner. Objective: CYP3A4∗1G (G > A) in human CYP3A4 intron 10 is associated with therapeutic effects of CYP3A4-metabolized drugs. The aim of this study was to predict its function in the regulation of CYP3A4 expression. Methods: Functional analysis of the CYP3A4∗1G allele was performed using bioinformatic methods and enhancer or promoter reporter assays in HepG2 cells. Results: Transcription regulatory elements like CAATboxes, TATA-boxes, Sp1, SMARCA3.01, and Box II-like sequence were present in the intron 10 of CYP3A4. SMARCA3.01 and Box II-like sequence were responsible for differential binding of transcription factors on the CYP3A4∗1G allele. In CYP3A4∗1G, the G allele enhanced expression of the CYP3A4 promoter in a position-dependent and orientation- dependent manner, however, the A allele enhanced expression of the CYP3A4 promoter in a position-independent and orientation-independent manner. In addition, the G allele and the A allele both displayed strong transcriptional activation, but the latter showed higher promoter activity than the former. Also, the A allele showed greater activity than the CYP3A4 promoter. Conclusion: These results in vitro suggest that CYP3A4∗1G regulates CYP3A4 intron 10 enhancer and promoter activity in an allelic-dependent manner.
Calcium channel γ subunits provide insights into the evolution of this gene family. The γ subunits of voltage-dependent calcium channels influence calcium current properties and may be involved in other physiological functions. Five distinct γ subunits have been described from human and/or mouse. The first identified member of this group of proteins, γ1, is a component of the L-type calcium channel expressed in skeletal muscle. A second member, γ2, identified from the stargazer mouse regulates the targeting of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA) receptors to the postsynaptic membrane. We report here the identification of three novel γ subunits from rat and mouse as well as the unidentified rat, mouse and human orthologs of the previously described subunits. Phylogenetic analysis of the 24 mammalian γ subunits suggests the following relationship ((((γ2, γ3), (γ4, γ8)), (γ5, γ7)), (γ1, γ6)) that indicates that they evolved from a common ancestral γ subunit via gene duplication. Our analysis reveals that the novel γ subunit γ6 most closely resembles γ1 and shares with it the lack of a PSD-95/DLG/ZO-1 (PDZ)-binding motif that is characteristic of most other γ subunits. Rat γ subunit mRNAs are expressed in multiple tissues including brain, heart, lung, and testis. The expression of γ1 mRNA and the long isoform of γ6 mRNA is most robust in skeletal muscle, while γ6 is also highly expressed in cardiac muscle. Based on our analysis of the molecular evolution, primary structure, and tissue distribution of the γ subunits, we propose that γ1 and γ6 may share common physiological functions distinct from the other homologous γ subunits.
Candidate Modifier Genes for the Penetrance of Leber’s Hereditary Optic Neuropathy. Leber’s hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON) is a maternally transmitted disease caused by mitochondria DNA (mtDNA) mutation. It is characterized by acute and subacute visual loss predominantly affecting young men. The mtDNA mutation is transmitted to all maternal lineages. However, only approximately 50% of men and 10% of women harboring a pathogenic mtDNA mutation develop optic neuropathy, reflecting both the incomplete penetrance and its unexplained male prevalence, where over 80% of patients are male. Nuclear modifier genes have been presumed to affect the penetrance of LHON. With conventional genetic methods, prior studies have failed to solve the underlying pathogenesis. Whole exome sequencing (WES) is a new molecular technique for sequencing the protein-coding region of all genes in a whole genome. We performed WES from five families with 17 members. These samples were divided into the proband group (probands with acute onset of LHON, n = 7) and control group (carriers including mother and relative carriers with mtDNSA 11778 mutation, without clinical manifestation of LHON, n = 10). Through whole exome analysis, we found that many mitochondria related (MT-related) nuclear genes have high percentage of variants in either the proband group or control group. The MT genes with a difference over 0.3 of mutation percentage between the proband and control groups include AK4, NSUN4, RDH13, COQ3, and FAHD1. In addition, the pathway analysis revealed that these genes were associated with cofactor metabolism pathways. Family-based analysis showed that several candidate MT genes including METAP1D (c.41G > T), ACACB (c.1029del), ME3 (c.972G > C), NIPSNAP3B (c.280G > C, c.476C > G), and NSUN4 (c.4A > G) were involved in the penetrance of LHON. A GWAS (genome wide association study) was performed, which found that ADGRG5 (Chr16:575620A:G), POLE4 (Chr2:7495872T:G), ERMAP (Chr1:4283044A:G), PIGR (Chr1:2069357C:T;2069358G:A), CDC42BPB (Chr14:102949A:G), PROK1 (Chr1:1104562A:G), BCAN (Chr 1:1566582C:T), and NES (Chr1:1566698A:G,1566705T:C, 1566707T:C) may be involved. The incomplete penetrance and male prevalence are still the major unexplained issues in LHON. Through whole exome analysis, we found several MT genes with a high percentage of variants were involved in a family-based analysis. Pathway analysis suggested a difference in the mutation burden of MT genes underlining the biosynthesis and metabolism pathways. In addition, the GWAS analysis also revealed several candidate nuclear modifier genes. The new technology of WES contributes to provide a highly efficient candidate gene screening function in molecular genetics.
Cardiotrophin-1 induces intercellular adhesion molecule-1 expression by nuclear factor κB activation in human umbilical vein endothelial cells. Background: In addition to elevated concentrations of cytokines, patients with congestive heart failure (CHF) show endothelial dysfunction and increased plasma concentrations of adhesion molecules like intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1). Furthermore, the concentration of cardiotrophin-1 (GT-1) - a cytokine of the interleukin-6 superfamily - is increased in CHF. We tested the hypothesis whether CT-1 is able to induce ICAM-1 in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC). Furthermore we examined the signalling mechanisms of CT-1 mediated ICAM-1 expression. Methods: Confluent layers of HUVEC were incubated with increasing concentrations of CT-1 (5 to 100 ng/ml) for different periods. ICAM-1 mRNA was determined by real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and ICAM-1 surface expression by fluorescence-activated cell sorter (FACS) analysis and soluble ICAM-1 (slCAM-1) in the culture supernatant by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). To clarify the signalling pathway of CT-1 induced ICAM-1 expression we used various inhibitors of possible signal transducing molecules, electromobility shift assay (EMSA) and Western blot analysis. Results: CT-1 induced ICAM-1 mRNA (1.8±0.8 fold increase compared to unstimulated cells after 6 hours) and protein (1.4±0.2 fold increase compared to unstimulated cells after 48 hours) in HUVEC in a time- and concentration-dependent manner. EMSA experiments show that CT-1 causes nuclear factor (NF) KB activation. Because parthenolide could inhibit CT-1 induced ICAM-1 expression NFKB activation is required in this pathway. CT-1 did not activate extracellular signal regulated kinases (ERK), c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and p38. Conclusion: CT-1 is able to induce ICAM-1 in endothelial cells by NFKB activation. These results may explain in part elevated ICAM-1 concentrations in patients with CHF and endothelial dysfunction.
Caveolin interacts with Trk A and p75(NTR) and regulates neurotrophin signaling pathways. Neurotrophins signal through Trk tyrosine kinase receptors and the low- affinity neurotrophin receptor p75(NTR). We have shown previously that activation of Trk A tyrosine kinase activity can inhibit p75(NTR)-dependent sphingomyelin hydrolysis, that caveolae are a localized site for p75(NTR) signaling, and that caveolin can directly interact with p75(NTR). The ability of caveolin to also interact with tyrosine kinase receptors and inhibit their activity led us to hypothesize that caveolin expression may modulate interactions between neurotrophin signaling pathways. PC12 cells were transfected with caveolin that was expressed efficiently and targeted to the appropriate membrane domains. Upon exposure to nerve growth factor (NGF), caveolin-PC12 cells were unable to develop extensive neuritic processes. Caveolin expression in PC12 cells was found to diminish the magnitude and duration of Trk A activation in vivo. This inhibition may be due to a direct interaction of caveolin with Trk A, because Trk A co-immunoprecipitated with caveolin from Cav-Trk A-PC12 cells, and a glutathione S-transferase-caveolin fusion protein bound to Trk A and inhibited NGF-induced autophosphorylation in vitro. Furthermore, the in vivo kinetics of the inhibition of Trk A tyrosine kinase activity by caveolin expression correlated with an increased ability of NGF to induce sphingomyelin hydrolysis through p75(NTR). In summary, our results suggest that the interaction of caveolin with neurotrophin receptors may have functional consequences in regulating signaling through p75(NTR) and Trk A in neuronal and glial cell populations.
Caveolin-1 and lipid microdomains regulate Gs trafficking and attenuate Gs/adenylyl cyclase signaling. Lipid rafts and caveolae are specialized membrane microdomains implicated in regulating G protein-coupled receptor signaling cascades. Previous studies have suggested that rafts/ caveolae may regulate β-adrenergic receptor/Gαs signaling, but underlying molecular mechanisms are largely undefined. Using a simplified model system in C6 glioma cells, this study disrupts rafts/caveolae using both pharmacological and genetic approaches to test whether caveolin-1 and lipid microdomains regulate Gs trafficking and signaling. Lipid rafts/caveolae were disrupted in C6 cells by either short-term cholesterol chelation using methyl-β-cyclodextrin or by stable knockdown of caveolin-1 and -2 by RNA interference. In imaging studies examining Gαs-GFP during signaling, stimulation with the βAR agonist isoproterenol resulted in internalization of Gαs-GFP; however, this trafficking was blocked by methyl-β-cyclodextrin or by caveolin knockdown. Caveolin knockdown significantly decreased Gαs localization in detergent insoluble lipid raft/caveolae membrane fractions, suggesting that caveolin localizes a portion of Gαs to these membrane microdomains. Methyl-β-cyclodextrin or caveolin knockdown significantly increased isoproterenol or thyrotropin- stimulated cAMP accumulation. Furthermore, forskolin- and aluminum tetrafluoride-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity was significantly increased by caveolin knockdown in cells or in brain membranes obtained from caveolin-1 knockout mice, indicating that caveolin attenuates signaling at the level of Gαs/ adenylyl cyclase and distal to GPCRs. Taken together, these results demonstrate that caveolin-1 and lipid microdomains exert a major effect on Gαs trafficking and signaling. It is suggested that lipid rafts/caveolae are sites that remove Gαs from membrane signaling cascades and caveolins might dampen globally Gαs/ adenylyl cyclase/cAMP signaling.
Celecoxib Inhibits Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Expression in and Reduces Angiogenesis and Metastasis of Human Pancreatic Cancer via Suppression of Sp1 Transcription Factor Activity. The aggressive biology of human pancreatic adenocarcinoma has been linked with overexpression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). Constitutive activation of the transcription factor Sp1 plays a critical role in VEGF overexpression. Recent studies indicated that celecoxib, a selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor, exhibits potent antitumor activity. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms of this activity remain unclear. In the present study, we used a pancreatic cancer model to determine the role of Sp1 in the antitumor activity of celecoxib. Treatment of various pancreatic cancer cells with celecoxib suppressed VEGF expression at both the mRNA and protein level in a dose-dependent manner. VEGF promoter deletion and point mutation analyses indicated that a region between nucleotide -109 and -61 and its intact Sp1-binding sites were required for the inhibition of VEGF promoter activity by celecoxib. Also, celecoxib treatment reduced both Sp1 DNA binding activity and transactivating activity. This decreased activity correlated with reduced Sp1 protein and its phosphorylation as determined using Western blot analysis. Furthermore, in an orthotopic pancreatic cancer animal model, celecoxib treatment inhibited tumor growth and metastasis. The antitumor activity was consistent with inhibition of angiogenesis as determined by evaluating tumor microvessel formation, which correlated with decreased Sp1 activity and VEGF expression. Collectively, our data provide a novel molecular mechanism for the antitumor activity of celecoxib and may help further improve its effectiveness in controlling pancreatic cancer growth and metastasis.
Cell cycle regulation of a human cyclin-like gene encoding uracil-DNA glycosylase. The predicted amino acid sequence of a human cDNA encoding uracil-DNA glycosylase activity shows striking similarity to the cyclin protein family. To characterize the expression of this DNA repair enzyme, we have isolated the corresponding genomic clone. This gene is contained within 4.2 kilobases and is composed of only two exons. Sequence analysis of the upstream region shows that it contains two cell cycle box (CCB) regulatory elements which are also found in yeast cyclin genes. Deletional analysis of the promoter reveals the presence of a repressor region located from position -812 to -603. An inverted CCB element (α-CCB) and an SP1-like binding site are contained within this region. When uracil-DNA glycosylase mRNA levels are examined in vivo, a 2-3-fold increase is associated with G1 phase in both HeLa S3 and WI38 cells. To examine the role of the 209-base pair repressor region in mediating cell cycle regulation, this fragment was used in gel shift assays with cellular extracts prepared from various stages of the cell cycle. Several specific complexes are formed during S and G2 phases which are not present during M and G1 phases. Two of the complexes are the result of α- CCB binding as they can be specifically disrupted by the addition of an oligonucleotide containing the α-CCB binding site. Immunoprecipitation studies reveal that uracil-DNA glycosylase protein levels are also elevated during G1 phase. Additionally, we show that the 36-kDa uracil-DNA glycosylase protein is turned over during the course of one cell cycle. These results demonstrate coordinate regulation of uracil-DNA glycosylase at both the transcriptional and the post-transcriptional levels as a function of the cell cycle.
Cell differentiation of gonadotropin-releasing hormone neurons and alternative RNA splicing of the gonadotropin-releasing hormone transcript. Two different, yet related issues regarding gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH), i.e. the development and differentiation of hypothalamic GnRH neurons and the alternative RNA splicing of GnRH gene transcripts, are addressed in the present review. Using the immortalized GnRH-producing GT1 cell line, we found that activation of protein kinase C (PKC) with 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate induces morphological and functional differentiation of these neurons. Specific isoforms of PKC are involved in neurite growth, cell migration and synaptic contacts and involve different signaling pathways. Using an in vitro splicing assay with HeLa nuclear extract, we found that excision of the first intron of the GnRH primary transcript is attenuated in non-GnRH-producing cells, but not in GnRH-producing cells such as GT1. This attenuation was relieved by exonic splicing enhancers located in the GnRH exons 3 and 4. Interestingly, addition of nuclear extract derived from GT1 cells further increased the excision rate of intron A, indicating that GnRH neurons contain trans-acting splicing factors. Extensive biochemical analysis indicates that Tra2α, a serine/arginine-rich RNA-binding protein, and other cofactors are likely involved in mediating neuron-specific excision of intron A from the GnRH primary transcript. An understanding of the GnRH neuron-specific splicing machinery provides critical insight into the molecular mechanism of GnRH gene regulation and consequently of mammalian reproductive development.
Cell type-specific regulation of the TGF-β-responsive α2(I) collagen gene by CpG methylation. The α2(I) collagen gene shows cell type-specific expression, however, the mechanism behind this specificity remains to be determined. We demonstrate here that transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β)-mediated induction of α2(I) collagen gene is regulated by DNA methylation in a cell type-specific manner. Human α2(I) collagen mRNA and type I collagen protein were expressed in normal human fibroblasts (NHF), and also strongly enhanced by TGF-β; they were not detected in HaCaT, HeLa, or HepG2 cells (termed "collagen-induction resistant (CIR) cells") even following stimulation with TGF-β. On the other hand, the transcriptional activity of exogenously transfected α2(I) collagen promoter was clearly up-regulated by TGF-β in the CIR cells as as well as in NHF. In the CIR cells, CpG clusters around the transcription start site of the ot2(l) collagen gene were heavily methylated, whereas no methylation was detected in NHF. Moreover, α2(I) collagen gene was reactivated in the CIR cells by 5-Aza-2-deoxycytidine (5-AdC) treatment to some extent. However, demethylation by 5-AdC was limited and it was unable to recover the TGF-β responsiveness. In NHF, the α2(I) collagen gene has a Smad3-accessible chromatin structure and acetylated histones in the promoter regions. By contrast, in the CIR cells, Smad3 failed to bind to the chromatin and histones were not acetylated in this area. Furthermore, in vitro methylation of the reporter gene containing the α2(I) collagen promoter significantly reduced both basal and TGF-β-induced enhancement of the transcriptional activity in NHF. Thus, we propose that α2(I) collagen gene provides the first example of the TGF-β responsive gene whose cell type-specificity is regulated by CpG methylation.
Cellular and molecular mechanism of lead neurotoxicity. Lead, a heavy metal, has been used by humans for many technological aims, a fact that has determined its actual widespread distribution. Although various actions have been taken to diminish the use and distribution of lead in the environment, it remains a significant health problem. The evolution of technological processes applied in the industry has followed economic interest. Its only in recent times that criteria related to health and ecology have been considered while designing new industries. Particularly susceptible groups are children and workers involved in mining, metallurgy, paint manufacturing and battery recycling. The communities living in areas where those industries are settled have also a higher lead exposure risk. Its high biological toxicity has determined lead to become one of the most significant environmental contaminants with pathogenic potential for humans. The toxic mechanism of lead is essentially due to its capability to substitute other polyvalent cations (particularly divalent cations such as calcium and zinc) into the molecular machinery of living organisms. Thanks to its ionic structure, lead establishes very favorable interactions, usually with higher affinity, with chemical groups that normally coordinate divalent cations in proteins. The coordination of cations in proteins is usually achieved by negatively charged acidic, residues. These residues establish ionic interactions with the positively charged ion, resulting in a change in the structure and electric charge of the protein. These interactions determine that lead may affect different biologically significant processes, including metal transporting proteins, ionic channels, cell adhesion molecules, diverse enzymes which have metallic cofactors, signaling molecules such as calmodulin and protein kinase C and DNA binding proteins, among other molecular targets. Lead interactions with the coordinating amino acid residues in proteins may induce an abnormal conformational configuration of proteins, as compared to the conformational structure acquired when interacting with commonly active cations, thus significantly altering its functional properties in the very complex molecular machinery. Among the biologically active sites usually occupied by lead, those related to calcium seem to have the most significant pathological importance for lead toxicity due to their widespread distribution and highly significant functional relevance for the normal cell function. Two of the principal calcium binding motifs in proteins, the EF-hand motif and the C2 motif, have an intrinsic high affinity for lead. In the case of EF-hand motifs, calmodulin is one of the most remarkable targets for lead due its importance in regulating cellular processes, being activated by lead at lower concentrations than required for calcium and displaying an abnormal activity. The C2 motif is expressed mainly in calcium dependent membrane associated proteins such as protein kinase C (PKC) or synaptotagmin. The principal characteristic in these motifs is an electrical change in the protein after the calcium binding, allowing its interaction with biological membranes. In synaptotagmin, according with the electrical characteristics of lead, the interaction of the complex lead-synaptotagmin with biological membranes is similar to the interaction calcium-synaptotagmin with membranes, which is eminently electrical. Hence, the conformation of this complex is probably different to the conformation with calcium, fact evidenced by the failure of lead-synaptotagmin to interact with other proteins of the exocitic machinery. In relation to lead neurotoxicity, membrane ionic channels seem to be among the most relevant molecular targets of lead. In particular, calcium and potassium channel function may be significantly impaired by lead, affecting the activation of calcium activated potassium channels, the inactivation process of calcium channels, and the ionic conductance of calcium channels. As occurs with other heavy metals, lead is capable of blocking the calcium channel, probably at the selectivity filter. The high affinity lead binding to the acidic residues of the filter provokes a slow flux of the metal trough the channel pore, blocking the calcium conductance. The regulation of ionic channels will be significantly altered also. Calmodulin is a common calcium sensing protein for many ionic channels and its alteration by lead could affect the channel operation. Abnormal functioning of regulatory and signaling proteins such as calmodulin, protein kinase C and synaptotagmins, which normally require calcium for its activity, may also display an abnormal functioning, thus determining a widespread metabolic influence of lead poisoning. Lead distributes evenly into the cell thus reaching intracellular organelles, including the endoplasmic reticulum, mitochondria and the cell nucleus. This results in significant alterations of intracellular calcium metabolism and regulation due in part to the malfunctioning of calcium channels and ionic pumps in plasma membrane, endoplasmic reticulum and mitochondria. Inadequate energy generation due to mitochondrial damage and malfunctioning in cation dependent enzymes, alterations in protein folding due to the direct binding of lead to calcium activated reticular chaperones, or indirectly, altering the intrareticular calcium levels, and the disruption of the structure of DNA binding motifs such as zinc fingers, among others, promotes alterations in gene expression and DNA reparation. Lead poisoning is one of the most important chronic environmental illnesses affecting children in modern life. Developing central nervous system is particularly susceptible to lead toxicity. At critical times in development, lead may have a disorganizing influence with long-lasting effects which may continue into teenage and beyond. Mechanisms originating this disorganizing influence in the central nervous system are a consequence of the interaction of lead with various targets as previously described; alterations of cell molecular machinery, at the systems level induce excitotoxic phenomena, interferes with neurotransmission at neurotransmitter synthesis, release and receptor activation levels, alters intracellular signaling and produce cell membrane peroxidative damage. Compared to adult lead poisoning, pediatric lead is most common and its effects may occur at reduced blood levels with subclinical symptoms; thus a high index of suspicion is necessary for physicians when dealing with pediatric patients. Long-term effects of lead may produce cognitive and motor impairment, with behavioral alterations. The particular vulnerability of the immature nervous system to the lead poisoning is probably due to the fact that in this stage of development the establishment of appropriate neural networks is highly dependent on the synaptic activity, which in turn could be altered by lead. Lead poisoning has been considered as a potential co-factor in complex neuropsychological alterations such as schizophrenia. In this sense it is worth to note the possibility that the physical and psychic symptoms of Vincent Van Gogh may have been due to chronic lead poisoning. The following are among the clinical symptoms described by Van Gogh in his autographed letters: initial debilitation, stomatitis with loss of teeth, recurring abdominal pains, anemia (with a "plumbic" skin tone), neuropathy of the radial and saturnine encephalopathy, including epileptic crises, progressive character changes and periods of delirium, all of which meet present criteria for diagnosis of Organic Mental Disorder due to cerebral lesion or somatic illness, and Organic Character Disorder (DSM-IV-R). Alpha-thujone, found in absinthe and in many popular herbal medicines, may also have contributed to Van Gogh symptoms since he was a well-known absynthe drinker. Many countries, including Mexico, have implemented politics aimed to eliminate lead from the majority of their industrial processes. This has been carried out with considerable effort, and in some cases, with open confrontations between the scientific community and industrial sector. Although there have been actually significant advances to eliminate lead from many products (gasoline, painting manufacturing, etc.), lead is not degradable, thence once it is released in the environment it remains there for long periods of time. This implies that we should have to deal with lead poisoning in the years to come and to be aware of this diagnostic possibility in any suspicious case. This review is centered in the description of the molecular mechanisms of lead toxicity and its repercussion in the cellular excitability and central nervous system function.
Central MHC genes affect IgA levels in the human: Reciprocal effects in IgA deficiency and IgA nephropathy. This study investigates the hypothesis that alternative alleles of one or more genes in the central major histocompatibility complex (MHC) predispose carriers to IgA deficiency (IgAD) or IgA Nephropathy (IgAN). Australian caucasian IgAD, IgAN patients, and controls were typed at HLA loci, single nucleotide polymorphisms, and microsatellites in the MHC. Alleles of the D6S273 microsatellite exhibited strong associations with IgAD and IgAN. D6S273*129 and *139 were more frequent in IgAD and less frequent in IgAN patients than controls. The reverse was true for D6S273*133 and *131. Alleles of other microsatellites exhibited weak associations with IgAD or IgAN. D6S273*129 is found on the 65.1 ancestral haplotype [HLA-B14(65), DR1], which has been reported to be increased in IgAD, but the majority of IgAD patients with D6S273*129 did not have other alleles of the haplotype. D6S273*139 is characteristic of the 8.1 ancestral haplotype (HLA-A1, B8, DR3), which was common in IgAD and rare in IgAN patients. Further studies of the 8.1 haplotype in Australian, German and Spanish caucasian subjects revealed that HLA-DR3, in the absence of -B8, is not associated with IgAD. However -B8 is associated with IgAD in the absence of -DR3, consistent with a susceptibility locus in the central MHC. Provisional mapping within this region is discussed.
Centromeres and variant histones: What, where, when and why?. The CENP-A histone H3-like variants are centromere-specific histones found in all eukaryotes examined to date, from budding yeast to man. New experiments using antibodies, green fluorescent protein fusions, and epitope tags show that CENP-A replaces the major histone H3 subunits in a specialized histone octamer and that it does so with histones H4, and probably H2A and H2B. One of the classic hallmarks of chromatin molecular biology is that nucleosomes are deposited on DNA during replication in S phase. However, dramatic new results in mammalian and Drosophila cells show that CENP-A deposition is uncoupled from the replication of centromere DNA. Furthermore, genetic and phenotypic knockout experiments over the past year have demonstrated that the deposition of CENP-A at newly duplicated sister centromeres is an early step in the biogenesis of new centromeres and is required for the recruitment of other proteins to the centromere and kinetochore. In organisms with complex regional or holocentric centromeres, centromere identity was thought to be defined by the epigenetic state of centromere chromatin. Now, new experiments solidify this model and show that the epigenetic state can be spread in cis experimentally, creating a neocentromere, in a mechanism reminiscent of chromatin transcriptional silencing. Finally, a new report provides a glimpse into the potential regulation of CENP-A through specific post-translational phosphorylation, suggesting a broad level of control through histone tail modifications.
Characterization of CCL20 secretion by human epithelial vaginal cells: Involvement in Langerhans cell precursor attraction. Mucosa represents the main site of pathogen/cell interactions. The two main types of cells forming the epithelial structure [epithelial cells and Langerhans cells (LC)] coordinate the first defense responses to avoid infection. To evaluate the involvement of epithelial cells in the early steps leading to a specific adaptive imniime response, we have studied the interactions between vaginal epithelial and LC through the establishment of a human vaginal epithelial mucosa. We demonstrate that normal human vaginal epithelial cells constitutively secrete the chemokine macrophage inflammatory protein 3α/CC chemokine ligand 20 (CCL20), known to recruit LC precursors (LCps) selectively via its cognate CC chemokine receptor 6 (CCR6). This secretion is up-regulated by the proinflammatory cytokine interleukin-1β through the nuclear factor-κB pathway. Similar results were obtained with the human vaginal epithelial cell line SiHa, which displays numerous homologies with normal vaginal cells. The chemotactic activity of the secreted CCL20 was demonstrated by its ability to attract LCp CCR6+. Moreover, the use of neutralizing polyclonal antibodies directed against the CCL20 molecule abolished this migration completely, suggesting that CCL20 is the main attracting factor for LCps, which is produced by the vaginal cells. These data indicate that vaginal epithelial cells play an important role in the immunological defense by attracting immune cells to the site of epithelial/pathogen contact.
Characterization of EZH1, a human homolog of Drosophila enhancer of zeste near BRCA1. Recent transcription mapping efforts within chromosome 17q21 have led to the identification of a human homolog of the Drosophila gene Enhancer of zeste, E(z). A member of the Polycomb group (Pc-G) of proteins, Drosophila E(z) acts as a negative regulator of the segment identity genes of the Antennapedia and Bithorax complexes. Here we report the full-length protein coding sequence of human EZH1 (Enhancer of zeste homolog 1) and compare the respective protein sequences in both species. EZH1 encodes a protein of 747 amino acids that displays 55% amino acid identity overall (70% similarity) with Drosophila E(z). The strongest homology was noted (79% identity, 89% similarity) within the carboxy-terminal 245 amino acids, including the SET domain, a region of E(z) also conserved in other Drosophila proteins with roles in development and/or chromatin structure. A large Cys-rich region with a novel spatial pattern of cysteine residues was also conserved in both EZH1 and E(z). The strong sequence conservation suggests potential roles for EZH1 in human development as a transcriptional regulator and as a component of protein complexes that stably maintain heterochromatin. EZH1 is expressed as two major transcripts in all adult and fetal human tissues surveyed; comparison of cloned cDNAs suggests that alternative splicing may account for at least part of the transcript size difference. Analysis of one cDNA revealed an unusual splicing event involving EZH1 and a tandemly linked gene GPR2 and suggests a potential mechanism for modifying the EZH1 protein in the conserved C-terminal domain. The sequence and isolated cDNAs will provide useful reagents for determining the function of EZH1 and the importance of the evolutionarily conserved domains.
Characterization of a CREB gain-of-function mutant with constitutive transcriptional activity in vivo. The cyclic AMP (cAMP)-responsive factor CREB promotes cellular gene expression, following its phosphorylation at Ser133, via recruitment of the coactivator paralogs CREB-binding protein (CBP) and p300. CBP and p300, in turn, appear to mediate target gene induction via their association with RNA polymerase II complexes and via intrinsic histone acetyltransferase activities that mobilize promoter-bound nucleosomes. In addition to cAMP, a wide variety of stimuli, including hypoxia, UV irradiation, and growth factor addition, induce Ser133 phosphorylation with stoichiometry and kinetics comparable to those induced by cAMP. Yet a number of these signals are incapable of promoting target gene activation via CREB phosphorylation per se, suggesting the presence of additional regulatory events either at the level of CREB-CBP complex formation or in the subsequent recruitment of the transcriptional apparatus. Here we characterize a Tyr134Phe CREB mutant that behaves as a constitutive activator in vivo. Like protein kinase A (PKA)- stimulated wild-type CREB, the Tyr134Phe polypeptide was found to stimulate target gene expression via the Ser133-dependent recruitment of CBP and p300. Biochemical studies reveal that mutation of Tyr134 to Phe lowers the K(m) for PKA phosphorylation and thereby induces high levels of constitutive Ser133 phosphorylation in vivo. Consistent with its constitutive activity, Tyr134Phe CREB strongly promoted differentiation of PC12 cells in concert with suboptimal doses of nerve growth factor. Taken together, these results demonstrate that Ser133 phosphorylation is sufficient for cellular gene activation and that additional signal-dependent modifications of CBP or p300 are not required for recruitment of the transcriptional apparatus to the promoter.
Characterization of a neural-specific splicing form of the human neuregulin 3 gene involved in oligodendrocyte survival. Neuregulins are a family of genes involved in key aspects of neural biology. Neuregulins 1, 2 and 3 (NRG1, NRG2 and NRG3) are expressed in the mammalian nervous system. It is well established that NRG1, with fifteen different splicing forms, is central for brain development and function. However, the biological relevance of NRG2 and NRG3 remains elusive. Here, we report the identification of a new isoform of NRG3 that is specifically expressed in the human embryonic central nervous system. Sequence alignment with the human genome suggests that this transcript is produced by alternative promoter usage. The encoded polypeptide is a type-I-glycosylated plasma membrane protein, which is shed into the extracellular space where it activates erbB4, a pivotal receptor for brain development. In addition, we show that the protein has a signal sequence that is cleaved after membrane insertion. Proteasome inhibition with Lactacystin enhances the expression of the protein, whereas impairment of ubiquitylation in the conditional mutant cell line ts20 protects the protein from degradation. These observations imply that the ubiquitin/proteasome pathway regulates biogenesis of the protein. We also show that recombinant neuregulin 3 acts as an oligodendrocyte survival factor by activating the phosphoinositide 3-kinase signalling pathway. Therefore, we report a new post-translationally regulated isoform of neuregulin 3 expressed in the developing human central nervous system with a role in oligodendrocyte survival.
Chemokines as the modulators of endometrial epithelial cells remodelling. Previous studies highlighted chemokines as potential factors regulating changes in the endometrium during early pregnancy. The current study aimed to screen the effects of a broad range of chemokines and indicate those that are involved in porcine luminal epithelial (LE) cell remodelling. Messenger RNA expression of chemokines (CCL2, CCL4, CCL5, CCL8, CXCL2, CXCL8, CXCL10 and CXCL12) and both the mRNA and protein expression of their receptors (CCR1, CCR2, CCR3, CCR5, CXCR2, CXCR3, CXCR4) were detected in LE cells. Exogenous CCL8 enhanced the proliferative and migration potential of LE cells and their motility in the environment with its stable concentration. The adhesive properties of LE cells were negatively affected by CCL8. However, CXCL12 positively affected the proliferation, motility and adhesion of LE cells as well as caused a decrease in MUC1 mRNA expression. To conclude, our studies determined that exogenous chemokines affected critical endometrial epithelial cell functions in the context of embryo implantation. We suggest that of all the examined factors, chemokine CCL8 participates in the establishment of a proper environment for embryo implantation, whereas CXCL12, apart from participation in endometrial receptivity, promotes embryo attachment.
Chimeric G-CSF Receptor-Mediated STAT3 Activation Contributes to Efficient Induction of Cardiomyocytes from Mouse Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells. Producing a sufficient number of cardiomyocytes from pluripotent stem cells has been of great demand for cardiac regeneration therapy. However, it remains challenging to efficiently differentiate cardiomyocytes with low costs. Reportedly, granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) receptor (GCSFR) signaling activates signal transducers and activators of transcription (STAT) signaling and enhances cardiac differentiation from embryonic stem cells or induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs). To economically and efficiently produce cardiomyocytes from iPSCs through GCSFR/STAT axis activation, we constructed antibody/receptor chimeras that can respond to an inexpensive small molecule. Single-chain Fv of anti-fluorescein (FL) antibody was ligated to transmembrane/cytoplasmic domains of GCSFRs, enabling transduction of GCSFR signaling in response to FL-conjugated bovine serum albumin (BSA-FL) as an alternative ligand. Mouse iPSC lines constitutively expressing these chimeric receptors exhibited increased BSA-FL-induced STAT3 phosphorylation in a dose-dependent manner, which was abolished by an inhibitor of Janus tyrosine kinase (JAK). In addition, BSA-FL stimulation also increased the incidence of beating embryoid bodies and upregulated cardiac-specific gene expressions after differentiation in these iPSC lines. Therefore, the chimeric GCSFRs activated endogenous GCSFR signaling at least via the JAK/STAT3 pathway, thereby enhancing cardiac differentiation from iPSCs. This approach, as an economical strategy, could contribute to stem cell-based cardiac regeneration therapy.
Chromatin dynamics underlying the precise regeneration of a vertebrate limb – Epigenetic regulation and cellular memory. Wound healing, tissue regeneration, and organ regrowth are all regeneration phenomena observed in vertebrates after an injury. However, the ability to regenerate differs greatly among species. Mammals can undergo wound healing and tissue regeneration, but cannot regenerate an organ; for example, they cannot regrow an amputated limb. In contrast, amphibians and fish have much higher capabilities for organ-level regeneration. In addition to medical studies and those in conventional mammalian models such as mice, studies in amphibians and fish have revealed essential factors for and mechanisms of regeneration, including the regrowth of a limb, tail, or fin. However, the molecular nature of the cellular memory needed to precisely generate a new appendage from an amputation site is not fully understood. Recent reports have indicated that organ regeneration is closely related to epigenetic regulation. For example, the methylation status of genomic DNA is related to the expression of regeneration-related genes, and histone-modification enzymes are required to control the chromatin dynamics for regeneration. A proposed mechanism of cellular memory involving an inheritable system of epigenetic modification led us to hypothesize that epigenetic regulation forms the basis for cellular memory in organ regeneration. Here we summarize the current understanding of the role of epigenetic regulation in organ regeneration and discuss the relationship between organ regeneration and epigenetic memory.
Chromatin regulated interchange between polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2)-Ezh2 and PRC2-Ezh1 complexes controls myogenin activation in skeletal muscle cells. Background: Polycomb group (PcG) genes code for chromatin multiprotein complexes that are responsible for maintaining gene silencing of transcriptional programs during differentiation and in adult tissues. Despite the large amount of information on PcG function during development and cell identity homeostasis, little is known regarding the dynamics of PcG complexes and their role during terminal differentiation. Results: We show that two distinct polycomb repressive complex (PRC)2 complexes contribute to skeletal muscle cell differentiation: the PRC2-Ezh2 complex, which is bound to the myogenin (MyoG) promoter and muscle creatine kinase (mCK) enhancer in proliferating myoblasts, and the PRC2-Ezh1 complex, which replaces PRC2-Ezh2 on MyoG promoter in post-mitotic myotubes. Interestingly, the opposing dynamics of PRC2-Ezh2 and PRC2-Ezh1 at these muscle regulatory regions is differentially regulated at the chromatin level by Msk1 dependent methyl/phospho switch mechanism involving phosphorylation of serine 28 of the H3 histone (H3S28ph). While Msk1/H3S28ph is critical for the displacement of the PRC2-Ezh2 complex, this pathway does not influence the binding of PRC2-Ezh1 on the chromatin. Importantly, depletion of Ezh1 impairs muscle differentiation and the chromatin recruitment of MyoD to the MyoG promoter in differentiating myotubes. We propose that PRC2-Ezh1 is necessary for controlling the proper timing of MyoG transcriptional activation and thus, in contrast to PRC2-Ezh2, is required for myogenic differentiation. Conclusions: Our data reveal another important layer of epigenetic control orchestrating skeletal muscle cell terminal differentiation, and introduce a novel function of the PRC2-Ezh1 complex in promoter setting.
Cis-acting regulatory sequences promote high-frequency gene conversion between repeated sequences in mammalian cells. In mammalian cells, little is known about the nature of recombination-prone regions of the genome. Previously, we reported that the immunoglobulin heavy chain (IgH) μ locus behaved as a hotspot for mitotic, intrachromosomal gene conversion (GC) between repeated μ constant (Cμ) regions in mouse hybridoma cells. To investigate whether elements within the μ gene regulatory region were required for hotspot activity, gene targeting was used to delete a 9.1 kb segment encompassing the μ gene promoter (Pμ), enhancer (Eμ) and switch region (Sμ from the locus. In these cell lines, GC between the Cμ repeats was significantly reduced, indicating that this 'recombination-enhancing sequence' (RES) is necessary for GC hotspot activity at the IgH locus. Importantly, the RES fragment stimulated GC when appended to the same Cμ repeats integrated at ectopic genomic sites. We also show that deletion of Eμ and flanking matrix attachment regions (MARs) from the RES abolishes GC hotspot activity at the IgH locus. However, no stimulation of ectopic GC was observed with the Eμ/MARs fragment alone. Finally, we provide evidence that no correlation exists between the level of transcription and GC promoted by the RES. We suggest a model whereby Eμ/MARS enhances mitotic GC at the endogenous IgH μ locus by effecting chromatin modifications in adjacent DNA.
Class II histone deacetylases: Versatile regulators. Histone acetylation and deacetylation play essential roles in modifying chromatin structure and regulating gene expression in eukaryotes. Histone deacetylases (HDACs) catalyze the deacetylation of lysine residues in the histone N-terminal tails and are found in large multiprotein complexes with transcriptional co-repressors. Human HDACs are grouped into three classes based on their similarity to known yeast factors: class I HDACs are similar to the yeast transcriptional repressor yRPD3, class II HDACs to yHDA1 and class III HDACs to ySIR2. In this review, we focus on the biology of class II HDACs. These newly discovered enzymes have been implicated as global regulators of gene expression during cell differentiation and development. We discuss their emerging biological functions and the molecular mechanisms by which they are regulated.
Cloning, characterization and tissue distribution of the rat ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter ABC2/ABCA2. The ABC1 (ABCA) subfamily of the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter superfamily has a structural feature that distinguishes it from other ABC transporters. Here we report the cloning, molecular characterization and tissue distribution of ABC2/ABCA2, which belongs to the ABC1 subfamily. Rat ABC2 is a protein of 2434 amino acids that has 44.5%, 40.0% and 40.8% identity with mouse ABC1/ABCA1, human ABC3/ABCA3 and human ABCR/ABCA4 respectively. Immunoblot analysis showed that proteins of 260 and 250 kDa were detected in COS-1 cells transfected with ABC2 having a haemagglutinin tag, while no band was detected in mock-transfected cells. After incubation with N-glycosidase F, the mobilities of the two proteins increased and a single band was detected, suggesting that ABC2 is a glycoprotein. Photoaffinity labelling with 8-azido-[α-32P]ATP confirmed that ATP binds to the ABC2 protein in the presence of Mg2+. RNA blot analysis showed that ABC2 mRNA is most abundant in rat brain. Examination of brain by in situ hybridization determined that ABC2 is expressed at high levels in the white matter, indicating that it is expressed in the oligodendrocytes. ABC2, therefore, is a glycosylated ABC transporter protein, and may play an especially important role in the brain. In addition, the N-terminal 60-amino-acid sequence of the human ABC1, which was missing from previous reports, has been determined.
Cloning, chromosomal characterization and mapping of the NAD-dependent histone deacetylases gene sirtuin 1. Sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) is a nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD +)-dependent deacetylase, which belongs to the silent information regulator 2 (Sir2) family of sirtuin histone deacetylases (HDACs). The yeast Sir2 protein and its mammalian derivatives play a central role in epigenetic gene silencing, DNA repair and recombination, cell-cycle, microtubule organization, and in the regulation of aging. We have isolated and characterized the human Sirt1 genomic sequence, which spans a region of 33,660 bp and which has one single genomic locus. Determination of the exon-intron splice junctions established that SIRT1 is encoded by 9 exons ranging in size from 80 bp (exon 6) to 2,120 bp (exon 9). Characterization of the 5′ flanking genomic region, which precedes the Sirt1 open reading frame, revealed a CCAAT-box and a number of NF-κB and GATA transcription factor binding sites in addition to a small 350 bp CpG island. The 4,107 bp human Sirt1 mRNA has an open reading frame of 2,244 bp and encodes a 747 aa protein with a predictive molecular weight of 81.7 kDa and an isoelectric point of 4.55. Fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis localized the human Sirt1 gene to chromosome 10q21.3.
Clusterin overexpression in rat pancreas during the acute phase of pancreatitis and pancreatic development. Molecular mechanisms associated with apoptosis in pancreas remain largely unknown. Clusterin mRNA is induced in several tissues in response to most apoptotic stimuli. In these tissues, clusterin has an antiapoptotic activity. The aim of this work was to test whether clusterin, which is not expressed in normal pancreas, was induced in pancreas during pancreatitis and pancreatic development. Clusterin mRNA levels were strongly increased 6 h after pancreatitis induction. Maximal expression happened between 24-48 h and decreased progressively to undetectable levels at day 5. Clusterin mRNA was expressed with similar intensity in oedematous caerulein-induced pancreatitis and in response to various degrees of necrohaemorrhagic taurocholate-induced pancreatitis, indicating a maximal gene activity in all types of pancreatitis; in situ hybridization showed that the acinar cells and some ducts expressed clusterin mRNA. A single band of about 35-38 kDa was detected by western blot in pancreatic homogenates and in pancreatic juice from rats with acute pancreatitis, but not from control rats. Clusterin mRNA expression was strong in late fetal life and remains high until day 11 post-partum, then decreased progressively with a minimum from 35 to 90 days post-partum. Clusterin mRNA levels were strongly induced in pancreatic acinar AR4-2J cells in response to various apoptotic stimuli (i.e., cycloheximide, staurosporine, ceramide and H2O2) but not with interleukin (IL)-1, IL-4 or IL-6 or heat shock, which do not induce apoptosis in AR4-2J cells. In conclusion, we demonstrated that clusterin is synthesized and released by the pancreas. Its strong expression during acute pancreatitis suggests its involvement in the pancreatic response to injury. Clusterin is also induced during pancreatic development. Because these situations are associated with apoptosis and clusterin was shown to protect against apoptosis, we speculate that clusterin could be involved in the control of acinar cell apoptosis.
Coding elements in exons 2 and 3 target c-myc mRNA downregulation during myogenic differentiation. Downregulation in expression of the c-myc proto-oncogene is an early molecular event in differentiation of murine C2C12 myoblasts into multinucleated myotubes. During differentiation, levels of c-myc mRNA decrease 3- to 10-fold despite a lack of change in its transcription rate. To identify cis-acting elements that target c-myc mRNA for downregulation during myogenesis, we stably transfected C2C12 cells with mutant myc genes or chimeric genes in which various myc sequences were fused to the human β- globin gene or to the bacterial chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) gene. Deletion of coding sequences from myc exon 2 or exon 3 abolished downregulation of myc mRNA during myogenic differentiation, while deletion of introns or sequences in the 5' or 3' untranslated regions (UTRs) did not, demonstrating that coding elements in both exons 2 and 3 are necessary for myc mRNA downregulation. Fusion of coding sequences from either myc exon 2 or 3 to β-globin mRNA conferred downregulation onto the chimeric mRNA, while fusion of myc 3' UTR sequences or coding sequences from CAT or ribosomal protein L32 did not, demonstrating that coding elements in myc exons 2 and 3 specifically confer downregulation. These results present the apparent paradox that coding elements in either myc exon 2 or myc exon 3 are sufficient to confer downregulation onto β-globin mRNA, but neither element alone was sufficient for myc mRNA downregulation, suggesting that some feature of β-globin mRNA may potentiate the regulatory properties of myc exons 2 and 3. A similar regulatory function is not shared by all mRNAs because fusion of either myc exon 2 or myc exon 3 to CAT mRNA did not confer downregulation onto the chimeric mRNA, but fusion of the two elements together did. We conclude from these results that two myc regulatory elements, one exon 2 and one in exon 3, are required for myc mRNA downregulation. Finally, using a highly sensitive and specific PCR-based assay for comparing mRNA levels, we demonstrated that the downregulation mediated by myc exons 2 and 3 results in a decrease in cytoplasmic mRNA levels, but not nuclear mRNA levels, indicating that regulation is a postnuclear event.
Cohesin is required for long-range enhancer action at the Shh locus. The regulatory landscapes of developmental genes in mammals can be complex, with enhancers spread over many hundreds of kilobases. It has been suggested that three-dimensional genome organization, particularly topologically associating domains formed by cohesin-mediated loop extrusion, is important for enhancers to act over such large genomic distances. By coupling acute protein degradation with synthetic activation by targeted transcription factor recruitment, here we show that cohesin, but not CTCF, is required for activation of the target gene Shh by distant enhancers in mouse embryonic stem cells. Cohesin is not required for activation directly at the promoter or by an enhancer located closer to the Shh gene. Our findings support the hypothesis that chromatin compaction via cohesin-mediated loop extrusion allows for genes to be activated by enhancers that are located many hundreds of kilobases away in the linear genome and suggests that cohesin is dispensable for enhancers located more proximally.
Combined pituitary hormone deficiency due to gross deletions in the POU1F1 (PIT-1) and PROP1 genes. Pituitary development depends on a complex cascade of interacting transcription factors and signaling molecules. Lesions in this cascade lead to isolated or combined pituitary hormone deficiency (CPHD). The aim of this study was to identify copy number variants (CNVs) in genes known to cause CPHD and to determine their structure. We analyzed 70 CPHD patients from 64 families. Deletions were found in three Turkish families and one family from northern Iraq. In one family we identified a 4.96 kb deletion that comprises the first two exons of POU1F1. In three families a homozygous 15.9 kb deletion including complete PROP1 was discovered. Breakpoints map within highly homologous AluY sequences. Haplotype analysis revealed a shared haplotype of 350 kb among PROP1 deletion carriers. For the first time we were able to assign the boundaries of a previously reported PROP1 deletion. This gross deletion shows strong evidence to originate from a common ancestor in patients with Kurdish descent. No CNVs within LHX3, LHX4, HESX1, GH1 and GHRHR were found. Our data prove multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification to be a valuable tool for the detection of CNVs as cause of pituitary insufficiencies and should be considered as an analytical method particularly in Kurdish patients.
Coming full circle: On the origin and evolution of the looping model for enhancer–promoter communication. In mammalian organisms, enhancers can regulate transcription from great genomic distances. How enhancers affect distal gene expression has been a major question in the field of gene regulation. One model to explain how enhancers communicate with their target promoters, the chromatin looping model, posits that enhancers and promoters come in close spatial proximity to mediate communication. Chromatin looping has been broadly accepted as a means for enhancer–promoter communication, driven by accumulating in vitro and in vivo evidence. The genome is now known to be folded into a complex 3D arrangement, created and maintained in part by the interplay of the Cohesin complex and the DNA-binding protein CTCF. In the last few years, however, doubt over the relationship between looping and transcriptional activation has emerged, driven by studies finding that only a modest number of genes are perturbed with acute degradation of looping machinery components. In parallel, newer models describing distal enhancer action have also come to prominence. In this article, we explore the emergence and development of the looping model as a means for enhancer–promoter communication and review the contrasting evidence between historical gene-specific and current global data for the role of chromatin looping in transcriptional regulation. We also discuss evidence for alternative models to chromatin looping and their support in the literature. We suggest that, while there is abundant evidence for chromatin looping as a major mechanism for enhancer function, enhancer–promoter communication is likely mediated by more than one mechanism in an enhancer- and context-dependent manner.
Common variants of the TCF7L2 gene are associated with increased risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus in a UK-resident South Asian population. Background: Recent studies have implicated variants of the transcription factor 7-like 2 (TCF7L2) gene in genetic susceptibility to type 2 diabetes mellitus in several different populations. The aim of this study was to determine whether variants of this gene are also risk factors for type 2 diabetes development in a UK-resident South Asian cohort of Punjabi ancestry. Methods: We genotyped four single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of TCF7L2 (rs7901695, rs7903146, rs11196205 and rs12255372) in 831 subjects with diabetes and 437 control subjects. Results: The minor allele of each variant was significantly associated with type 2 diabetes; the greatest risk of developing the disease was conferred by rs7903146, with an allelic odds ratio (OR) of 1.31 (95% CI: 1.11 - 1.56, p = 1.96 × 10-3). For each variant, disease risk associated with homozygosity for the minor allele was greater than that for heterozygotes, with the exception of rs12255372. To determine the effect on the observed associations of including young control subjects in our data set, we reanalysed the data using subsets of the control group defined by different minimum age thresholds. Increasing the minimum age of our control subjects resulted in a corresponding increase in OR for all variants of the gene (p ≤ 1.04 × 10-7). Conclusion: Our results support recent findings that TCF7L2 is an important genetic risk factor for the development of type 2 diabetes in multiple ethnic groups.
Comparative effects of retroviral-mediated gene transfer into primary human stromal cells of Flt3-ligand, interleukin 3 and GM-CSF on production of cord blood progenitor cells in long-term culture. The effects of different cytokines on growth of human cord blood CD34 cells was studied by performing long-term culture (LTC) with primary human stromal cells transduced with genes for either Flt3-ligand (L) (human transmembrane, murine soluble or murine membrane-bound forms), human interleukin 3 (IL-3) or human GM-CSF. Molecular analysis of genomic DNA from transduced stromal cells using neo-specific polymerase chain reaction demonstrated gene transfer of G418-selected stromal cell populations. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and biological assays of conditioned media from transduced stromal cells indicated expression and release of soluble cytokines. Numbers of both immature and more mature progenitors (colony-forming unit-granulocyte, erythroid, macrophage, megakaryocyte; CFU-GEMM, BFU-E, CFU-GM) were increased threefold compared to control in the Flt3-L (transmembrane) LTC throughout five weeks of culture. IL-3 and GM-CSF feeders increased progenitor cell output also, but these effects were significantly lower than Flt3-L feeders. The two Flt3-L isoform engineered feeders, Ex6 (soluble isoform) and 5H (membrane-bound isoform), showed a decreased effect compared to the transmembrane Flt3-L feeders and, in particular, Ex6 feeders were similar to control feeders and 5H feeders were comparable to Flt3-L feeders only in the first two weeks of LTC. These results were apparent also by limiting dilution assays that showed a higher frequency of pre-CFU in the transmembrane Flt3-L feeders compared to control and the other cytokine feeders. Exogenous addition of soluble growth factors to suspension cultures without feeder layers, while superior to stromal feeders for short-term expansion of early progenitors, were inferior to the long-term maintenance/output on stromal feeders. Pre-CFU analysis supported these data. These results may be of some significance to understanding the actions of Flt3-L on blood cell production.
Comparative functional genomics of mammalian DNA methyltransferases. DNA methylation involves biochemical modification of DNA by addition of methyl groups onto CpG dinucleotides, and this epigenetic mechanism regulates gene expression in disease and development. Mammalian DNA methyltransferases, DNMT (DNMT1, DNMT3A and DNMT3B), together with the accessory protein DNMT3L establish specific DNA methylation patterns in the genome during gametogenesis, embryogenesis and somatic tissue development. The present study addresses the structural and functional conservation of the DNMT in humans, mice and cattle and the patterns of mRNA abundance of the different enzymes during embryogenesis to improve understanding of epigenetic regulation in early development. The findings showed a high degree of structural and functional conservation among the human, mouse, and bovine DNMT. The results also showed similar patterns of transcript abundance for all of the proteins at different stages of early embryo development. Remarkably, all of the DNMT with an important role in DNA methylation (DNMT1, DNMT3A, DNMT3B, and DNMT3L) show a greater degree of structural similarity between human and bovine than that between human and mouse. These results have important implications for the selection of an appropriate model for study of DNA methylation during early development in humans.
Comparative genomics modeling of the NRSF/REST repressor network: From single conserved sites to genome-wide repertoire. We constructed and applied an open source informatic framework called Cistematic in an effort to predict the target gene repertoire for transcription factors with large binding sites. Cistematic uses two different evolutionary conservation-filtering algorithms in conjunction with several analysis modules. Beginning with a single conserved and biologically tested site for the neuronal repressor NRSF/REST, Cistematic generated a refined PSFM (position specific frequency matrix) based on conserved site occurrences in mouse, human, and dog genomes. Predictions from this model were validated by chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) followed by quantitative PCR. The combination of transfection assays and ChIP enrichment data provided an objective basis for setting a threshold for membership and rank-ordering a final gene cohort model consisting of 842 high-confidence sites in the human genome associated with 733 genes. Statistically significant enrichment of NRSE-associated genes was found for neuron-specific Gene Ontology (GO) terms and neuronal mRNA expression profiles. A more extensive evolutionary survey showed that NRSE sites matching the PSFM model exist in roughly similar numbers in all fully sequenced vertebrate genomes but are notably absent from invertebrate and protochordate genomes, as is NRSF itself. Some NRSF/REST sites reside in repeats, which suggests a mechanism for both ancient and modern dispersal of NRSEs through vertebrate genomes. Multiple predicted sites are located near neuronal microRNA and splicing-factor genes, and these tested positive for NRSF/REST occupancy in vivo. The resulting network model integrates post-transcriptional and translational controllers, including candidate feedback loops on NRSF and its corepressor, CoREST.
Comparative genomics on SFRP2 orthologs. SFRP1, SFRP2, SFRP3, SFRP4, SFRP5, DKK1, DKK2, DKK3, DKK4, and WIF1 are soluble modulators of WNT signaling. SFRP2 gene at human chromosome 4q31.3 is claimed as a tumor suppressor gene inactivated by the epigenetic CpG hypermethylation in colorectal cancer. SFRP2 methylation is a sensitive single DNA-based marker for the fecal screening of colorectal cancer. On the other hand, SFRP2 is claimed to induce cellular resistance to apoptosis in mammary tumors. Here, we identified and characterized the rat Sfrp2 gene by using bioinformatics. Rat Sfrp2 gene, consisting of three exons, was located within AC129161.3 genome sequence. Rat Sfrp2 gene was found to encode a 295-aa Sfrp2 protein, consisting of signal peptide, Frizzled domain with ten conserved Cys residues, and Netrin (NTR) domain with six conserved Cys residues. Rat Sfrp2 showed 98.6% and 97.6% total-amino-acid identity with mouse Sfrp2 and human SFRP2, respectively. Phylogenetic analyses revealed that Sfrp2 orthologs were more related to Sfrp1 and Sfrp5 orthologs than to Sfrp3 and Sfrp4 orthologs. Human SFRP2 promoter (nucleotide position 71417-71152 of AC020703.7 genome sequence) and rat Sfrp2 promoter (nucleotide position 184090-184357 of AC129161.3 genome sequence) showed 88.7% total nucleotide identity. GC content of human SFRP2 promoter was 63.9%. Binding site for POU domain transcription factors (POU2F1, POU2F2, etc.) was conserved between human SFRP2 promoter and rat Sfrp2 promoter. SFRP2 mRNA was expressed in embryonic stem (ES) cells, diffuse type gastric cancer with signet ring cell features, pancreatic cancer, colorectal cancer, retinoblastoma, and insulinoma. This is the first report on comparative integromics analyses on SFRP2 orthologs.
Complementary intron sequence motifs associated with human exon repetition: A role for intragenic, inter-transcript interactions in gene expression. Motivation: Exon repetition describes the presence of tandemly repeated exons in mRNA in the absence of duplications in the genome. The regulation of this process is not fully understood. We therefore investigated the entire flanking intronic sequences of exons involved in exon repetition for common sequence elements. Results: A computational analysis of 48 human single exon repetition events identified two common sequence motifs. One of these motifs is pyrimidine-rich and is more common in the upstream intron, whilst the other motif is highly enriched in purines and is more common in the downstream intron. As the two motifs are complementary to each other, they support a model by which exon repetition occurs as a result of trans-splicing between separate pre-mRNA transcripts from the same gene that are brought together during transcription by complementary intronic sequences. The majority of the motif instances overlap with the locations of mobile elements such as Alu elements. We explore the potential importance of complementary intron sequences in a rat gene that undertakes natural exon repetition in a strain specific manner. The possibility that distant complementary sequences can stimulate inter-transcript splicing during transcription suggests an unsuspected new role for potential secondary structures in endogenous genes.
Complementation of replication origin function in mouse embryonic stem cells by human DNA sequences. A functional origin of replication was mapped to the transcriptional promoter and exon 1 of the hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase (HPRT) gene in the mouse and human genomes. This origin was lost in mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells with a spontaneous deletion (∼36 kb) at the 5′ end of the HPRT locus. Restoration of HPRT activity by homologous recombination with human/mouse chimeric sequences reconstituted replication origin activity in two independent ES cell lines. Quantitative PCR analyses of abundance of genetic markers in size-fractionated nascent DNA indicated that initiation of DNA replication coincided with the site of insertion in the mouse genome of the 335 bp of human DNA containing the HPRT exon 1 and a truncated promoter. The genetic information contained in the human sequence and surrounding mouse DNA was analyzed for cis-acting elements that might contribute to selection and functional activation of a mammalian origin of DNA replication.
Computational epigenetic profiling of CpG islets in MTHFR. Computational epigenetics is a new area of research focused on exploring how DNA methylation patterns affect transcription factor binding that affect gene expression patterns. The aim of this study was to produce a new protocol for the detection of DNA methylation patterns using computational analysis which can be further confirmed by bisulfite PCR with serial pyrosequencing. The upstream regulatory element and pre-initiation complex relative to CpG islets within the methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase gene were determined via computational analysis and online databases. The 1,104 bp long CpG island located near to or at the alternative promoter site of methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase gene was identified. The CpG plot indicated that CpG islets A and B, within the island, contained 62 and 75 % GC content CpG ratios of 0.70 and 0.80–0.95, respectively. Further exploration of the CpG islets A and B indicates that the transcription start sites were GGC which were absent from the TATA boxes. In addition, although six PROSITE motifs were identified in CpG B, no motifs were detected in CpG A. A number of cis-regulatory elements were found in different regions within the CpGs A and B. Transcription factors were predicted to bind to CpGs A and B with varying affinities depending on the DNA methylation status. In addition, transcription factor binding may influence the expression patterns of the methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase gene by recruiting chromatin condensation inducing factors. These results have significant implications for the understanding of the architecture of transcription factor binding at CpG islets as well as DNA methylation patterns that affect chromatin structure.
Concise Review: Epigenetic regulation of myogenesis in health and disease. Skeletal muscle regeneration is initiated by satellite cells, a population of adult stem cells that reside in the muscle tissue. The ability of satellite cells to self-renew and to differentiate into the muscle lineage is under transcriptional and epigenetic control. Satellite cells are characterized by an open and permissive chromatin state. The transcription factor Pax7 is necessary for satellite cell function. Pax7 is a nodal factor regulating the expression of genes associated with satellite cell growth and proliferation, while preventing differentiation. Pax7 recruits chromatin modifiers to DNA to induce expression of specific target genes involved in myogenic commitment following asymmetric division of muscle stem cells. Emerging evidence suggests that replacement of canonical histones with histone variants is an important regulatory mechanism controlling the ability of satellite cells and myoblasts to differentiate. Differentiation into the muscle lineage is associated with a global gene repression characterized by a decrease in histone acetylationwith an increase in repressive histonemarks.However, genes important fordifferentiation areupregulatedbythe specific actionof histone acetyltransferases andother chromatin modifiers, in combination with several transcription factors, including MyoD and Mef2. Treatment with histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors enhances muscle regeneration and is considered as a therapeutic approach in the treatment of muscular dystrophy. This reviewdescribes the recent findings on epigenetic regulation in satellite stemcellsandcommittedmyoblasts.Thepotential of epigenetic drugs,such asHDAC inhibitors, aswell as their molecularmechanism of action in muscle cells, will be addressed.
Connective tissue growth factor modulates podocyte actin cytoskeleton and extracellular matrix synthesis and is induced in podocytes upon injury. Structural changes of podocytes and retraction of their foot processes are a critical factor in the pathogenesis of minimal change nephritis and glomerulosclerosis. Here we tested, if connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) is involved in podocyte injury during acute and chronic puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis (PAN) as animal models of minimal change nephritis, and focal segmental glomerulosclerosis, respectively. Rats were treated once (acute PAN) or for 13 weeks (chronic PAN). In both experimental conditions, CTGF and its mRNA were found to be highly upregulated in podocytes. The upregulation correlated with onset and duration of proteinuria in acute PAN, and glomerulosclerosis and high expression of glomerular fibronectin, and collagens I, III, and IV in chronic PAN. In vitro, treatment of podocytes with recombinant CTGF increased amount and density of actin stress fibers, the expression of actin-associated molecules such as podocalyxin, synaptopodin, ezrin, and actinin-4, and activation of focal adhesion kinase (FAK) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK). Moreover, we observed increased podocyte expression of mRNA for transforming growth factor (TGF)-β2, TGF-β receptor II, fibronectin, and collagens I, III, and IV. Treatment of cultured podocytes with puromycin aminonucleoside resulted in loss of actin stress fibers and cell death, effects that were partially prevented when CTGF was added to the culture medium. Depletion of CTGF mRNA in cultured podocytes by RNA interference reduced both the number of actin stress fibers and the expression of actin-associated molecules. We propose that the expression of CTGF is acutely upregulated in podocytes as part of a cellular attempt to repair structural changes of the actin cytoskeleton. When the damaging effects on podocyte structure and function persist chronically, continuous CTGF expression in podocytes is a critical factor that promotes progressive accumulation of glomerular extracellular matrix and glomerulosclerosis.
Conserved Upstream Regulatory Regions in Mammalian Tyrosine Hydroxylase. Tyrosine hydroxylase (Th) encodes the rate-limiting enzyme in catecholamine biosynthesis, and the regulation of its transcription is critical for the specification and maintenance of catecholaminergic neuron phenotypes. For many genes, regulatory genomic DNA sequences that are upstream of the proximal promoter control expression levels as well as region-specific expression patterns. The regulatory architecture of the genomic DNA upstream of the Th proximal promoter, however, is poorly understood. In this study, we examined the 11 kb upstream nucleotide sequence of Th from nine mammalian species and identified five highly conserved regions. Using cultured human cells and mouse olfactory bulb tissue, chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assays show that these conserved regions recruit transcription factors that are established regulators of Th transcription (such as NURR1, PITX3, FOXA2, MEIS2, and PAX6). This analysis also identified a conserved binding site for CTCF, and functional studies in cultured human cells and ChIP assays with mouse tissue show that CTCF is a novel regulator of Th transcription in the forebrain. Together, the findings in this study provide key insights into the upstream regulatory genomic architecture and regulatory mechanisms controlling mammalian Th gene transcription.
Constitutive expression of the Id-1 promoter in human metastatic breast cancer cells is linked with the loss of NF-1/Rb/HDAC-1 transcription repressor complex. The helix-loop-helix protein Id-1 is a dominant negative regulator of basic helix-loop-helix transcription factors, and plays a key role in the control of breast epithelial cell growth, invasion and differentiation. Previous investigations in our laboratory have shown that Id-1 mRNA was constitutively expressed in highly aggressive and invasive human breast cancer cells in comparison to non-transformed or non-aggressive cancerous cells, and that this loss of regulation is mediated by a 2.2-kb region of the human Id-1 promoter. Here we show that a 31 bp sequence within this 2.2-kb promoter, located 200 bp upstream of the initiation of transcription, is responsible for the constitutive expression of Id-1 in metastatic human breast cancer cells. Using gel shift experiments, we identified a high molecular weight complex present only in non-aggressive breast cancer cells cultured in serum-free medium and which appear to be necessary for proper Id-1 repression. In contrast, nuclear extracts from highly aggressive and metastatic cell lines do not contain this large molecular weight complex. Using DNA affinity precipitation assays (DAPA), we show that this complex contains SP-1, NF-1, Rb and HDAC-1 proteins. On the basis of these findings, we propose a mechanism for the loss of regulation of Id-1 promoter in invasive and metastatic human breast cancer cells.
Constitutive presence of cytochrome c in the cytosol of a chemoresistant leukemic cell line. The release of holocytochrome c (cyt c) from mitochondria into the cytosol is reportedly a landmark of the execution phase of apoptosis. As shown here, the P-glycoprotein- (P-gp) expressing K562/ADR cell line (but not the parental K562 cell line) exhibits both cytosolic and mitochondrial cyt c in the absence of any signs of apoptosis. K562/ADR cells were found to be relatively resistant to a variety of different inducers of apoptosis, and blocking the P-gp did not reverse this resistance. The release of cyt c in non-apoptotic K562/ADR cells was not accompanied by that of any other mitochondrial apoptogenic protein, such as AIF or Smac/DIABLO, and was inhibited by Bcl-2 over expression. In addition, using a cell-free system, we show that mitochondria isolated from K562/ADR cells spontaneously released cyt c. These data suggest that cyt c release may be compatible with the preservation of mitochondrial integrity and function, as well as cell proliferation.
Construction of baculovirus expression vector of miRNAs and its expression in insect cells. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are endogenous small non-protein coding RNAs that play important regulatory roles in animals and plants by binding to target transcripts for cleavage or translational repression. The miR-9a is very conservative in animals from flies to humans. Studies indicated that miR-9a is involved in the regulation of neurogenesis in animals. In our study, the baculovirus expression system was used to transcribe a recombinant vector containing miR-9a for further analysis the function ofmiR-9a. The sequence ofpre-miR-9a from silkworm DNA was first cloned into the donor pFastBac. The enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) was used as reporter gene. The recombinant donor plasmid pFastBac-miR-9a was transformed into E.coli DH10Bac/AcNPV forming Bacmid-9a which was transfected into insect cells with cational lipofectin. The transcription of mature miR-9a was detected by Real-time PCR. The results show the recombinant Bacmid-9a was successfully constructed and effectively transcribed miR-9a in infected Sf21 insect cells.
Control of Osteoblast-Specific Gene Expression by the Extracellular Matrix Environment. Osteoblast precursors must synthesize a collagenous extracellular matrix (ECM) before they will differentiate. A cell: ECM interaction mediated by integrin cell surface receptors is essential for induction of osteocalcin and other osteoblast-related proteins. This interaction stimulates the binding of the bone-specific transcription factor, Runx 2/Cbfa 1, to the osteocalcin promoter through a mechanism involving activation of the MEK/ERK branch of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway and Runx 2/Cbfa 1 phosphorylation. Other inducers of MAPK activity such as FGF2 and mechanical loading of cells also stimulate Runx 2/Cbfa 1 phosphorylation and transcriptional activity. Furthermore, ECM/MAPK-derived signals are required for bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) to be fully active in stimulating osteoblast gene expression. These results suggest a general model in which MAPK activity and Runx 2/Cbfa 1 phosphorylation are critical for the transcriptional activity of this molecule. Phosphorylated Runx 2/Cbfa 1 may exhibit increased affinity for specific enhancer elements in target genes and for accessory nuclear proteins. However, the precise mechanism involved in its activation is not fully understood.
Cooperative interactions between RUNX2 and homeodomain protein-binding sites are critical for the osteoblast-specific expression of the bone sialoprotein gene. The bone sialoprotein (Bsp) gene provides an excellent model for studying mechanisms controlling osteoblast-specific gene expression. Although the RUNX2 transcription factor directly regulates many osteoblast-related genes, its function in Bsp expression remains uncertain. By using chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) analysis in MC3T3-E1 (clone MC-4) preosteoblast cells, RUNX2 was shown to bind a chromatin fragment containing the proximal Bsp promoter. Two putative RUNX2-binding sites (R1 and R2) were identified within this region of the mouse, rat, and human genes and were shown to bind RUNX2 in vitro and in vivo (by ChIP assay). Site-specific mutagenesis established that both sites act as osteoblast-specific transcriptional enhancers and together account for nearly two-thirds of the total promoter activity. In addition, functional cooperativity was observed between the R2 site and an adjacent homeodomain protein-binding site previously characterized by this laboratory (the C site). All three sites (R1, R2, and C) are necessary for maximal promoter activity in osteoblasts. DLX5 in MC-4 cell nuclear extracts binds to the C site in vitro. Furthermore, ChIP assays revealed that DLX5 is selectively associated with chromatin in the vicinity of the C site only when Bsp is transcriptionally active. Finally, co-immunoprecipitation assays detected a physical complex containing DLX5 and RUNX2. Taken together, our data show that RUNX2 is a direct regulator of Bsp in osteoblasts and that it functions in cooperation with DLX5 or a related factor to activate osteoblast-specific gene expression.
Corepressor protein CDYL functions as a molecular bridge between polycomb repressor complex 2 and repressive chromatin mark trimethylated histone lysine 27. Polycomb group proteins play essential roles in transcriptional regulation of multiple gene families involved in various pathophysiological processes. It is believed that Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 (PRC2) is targeted to chromatin by the EED subunit to methylate histone H3 lysine 27 (H3K27), leading to a repressive chromatin state that inhibits gene expression. Here we report that the chromodomain-containing protein CDYL specifically recognizes di- and tri-methylated H3K27 (H3K27me2 and H3K27me3) and directly interacts with EZH2, the catalytic subunit of PRC2. We show that CDYL dramatically enhances the methyltransferase activity of PRC2 toward oligonucleosome substrates in vitro. Genome-wide analysis of CDYL targets by ChIP sequencing revealed that CDYL and PRC2 share a number of genomic targets. CDYL is required for chromatin targeting and maximal enzymatic activity of PRC2 at their common target sites. Our experiments indicate that CDYL functions as a molecular bridge between PRC2 and the repressive chromatin mark H3K27me3, forming a positive feedback loop to facilitate the establishment and propagation of H3K27me3 modifications along the chromatin.
Correlation of KIF3A and OVOL1, but not ACTL9, with atopic dermatitis in Chinese pediatric patients. Atopic dermatitis (AD) is the most common chronic inflammatory skin disease in Chinese pediatric patients. To date, the genetic susceptibility to AD in this population has not been fully clarified. Three single nucleotide polymorphisms have previously been associated with AD in Europeans, rs2897442 (KIF3A), rs479844 (OVOL1) and rs2164983 (ACTL9). To verify the correlation between AD and these three SNPs in the Chinese pediatric population, we conducted a case-control study including 235 pediatric patients with AD and 200 health controls. We confirmed the correlation between rs2897442 and rs479844 and AD in this population at both the genotype and allele levels. Statistical analysis showed that the C allele of rs2897442 is associated with an increased risk of developing AD, while the A allele of rs479844 is associated with a reduced risk. No correlation between rs2164983 and AD was identified. Our study indicates that KIF3A and OVOL1 are involved in the development of AD in the Chinese pediatric population.
Corticosterone actions on the hippocampal brain-derived neurotrophic factor expression are mediated by exon IV promoter. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression is strongly regulated by adrenocorticosteroids via activated gluco- and mineralocorticoid receptors. Four separate promoters are located upstream of the BDNF noncoding exons I to IV and may thus be involved in adrenocorticosteroid-mediated gene regulation. In adrenalectomised rats, corticosterone (10 mg/kg s.c.) induces a robust down-regulation of both BDNF mRNA and protein levels in the hippocampus peaking at 2-8 h. To study the role of the individual promoters in the corticosterone response, we employed exon-specific riboprobe in situ hybridisation as well as real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in the dentate gyrus. We found a down-regulation, mainly of exon IV and the protein-coding exon V, in nearby all hippocampal subregions, but exon II was only downregulated in the dentate gyrus. Exon I and exon III transcripts were not affected by corticosterone treatment. The results could be confirmed with real-time PCR in the dentate gyrus. It appears as if the exon IV promoter is the major target for corticosterone-mediated transcriptional regulation of BDNF in the hippocampus.
CpG methylation of the IFNG gene as a mechanism to induce immunosupression in tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes. The execution of appropriate gene expression patterns during immune responses is of eminent importance where CpG methylation has emerged as an essential mechanism for gene silencing. We have charted the methylation status of regulatory elements in the human IFNG gene encoding the signature cytokine of the Th1 response. Surprisingly, human naive CD4+ T lymphocytes displayed hypermethylation at the IFNG promoter region, which is in sharp contrast to the completely demethylated status of this region in mice. Th1 differentiation induced demethylation of the IFNG promoter and the upstream conserved nucleotide sequence 1 enhancer region, whereas Th2-differentiated lymphocytes remained hypermethylated. Furthermore, CD19+ B lymphocytes displayed hypomethylation at the IFNG promoter region with a similar pattern to Th1 effector cells. When investigating the methylation status among tumor-infiltrating CD4+ T lymphocytes from patients with colon cancer, we found that tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes cells are inappropriately hypermethylated, and thus not confined to the Th1 lineage. In contrast, CD4 + T cells from the tumor draining lymph node were significantly more demethylated than tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes. We conclude that there are obvious interspecies differences in the methylation status of the IFNG gene in naive CD4+ T lymphocytes, where Th1 commitment in human lymphocytes involves demethylation before IFNG expression. Finally, investigations of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes and CD4+ cells from tumor draining lymph node demonstrate methylation of regulatory regions within key effector genes as an epigenetic mechanism of tumor-induced immunosupression.
Critical role of S1PR1 and integrin β4 in HGF/c-Met-mediated increases in vascular integrity. Vascular endothelial cell (EC) barrier integrity is critical to vessel homeostasis whereas barrier dysfunction is a key feature of inflammatory disorders and tumor angiogenesis. We previously reported that hepatocyte growth factor (HGF)-mediated increases in EC barrier integrity are signaled through a dynamic complex present in lipid rafts involving its receptor, c-Met (1). We extended these observations to confirm that S1PR1 (sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor 1) and integrin β4 (ITGB4) are essential participants in HGF-induced EC barrier enhancement. Immunoprecipitation experiments demonstrated HGF-mediated recruitment of c-Met, ITGB4 and S1PR1 to caveolin-enriched lipid rafts in human lung EC with direct interactions of c-Met with both S1PR1 and ITGB4 accompanied by c-Met-dependent S1PR1 and ITGB4 transactivation. Reduced S1PR1 expression (siRNA) attenuated both ITGB4 and Rac1 activation as well as c-Met/ITGB4 interaction and resulted in decreased transendothelial electrical resistance. Furthermore, reduced ITGB4 expression attenuated HGF-induced c-Met activation, c-Met/S1PR1 interaction, and effected decreases in S1P- and HGF-induced EC barrier enhancement. Finally, the c-Met inhibitor, XL880, suppressed HGF-induced c-Met activation as well as S1PR1 and ITGB4 transactivation. These results support a critical role for S1PR1 and ITGB4 transactivation as rate-limiting events in the transduction of HGF signals via a dynamic c-Met complex resulting in enhanced EC barrier integrity.
Critical role of the miR-200 family in regulating differentiation and proliferation of neurons. The generation of differentiated and functional neurons is a complex process, which requires coordinated expression of several proteins and microRNAs (miRNAs). The present study using nerve growth factor (NGF)-differentiated PC12 cells led to the identification of miR-200, miR-221/222 and miR-34 families as major up-regulated miRNAs in fully differentiated neurons. Similar to PC12 cells, induction of miR-200 family was observed in differentiating neural stem cells, demonstrating a direct role of miR-200 family in neuronal differentiation. Over-expression of miR-200 induced neurite formation in PC12 cells and regulated neuronal markers in favour of differentiation. However, inhibition of miR-200 induced proliferation of PC12 cells. In differentiating PC12 cells and neural stem cells, an inverse relationship was observed between expression of reprogramming transcription factors (SOX2, KLF4, NANOG, OCT4 and PAX6) and miR-200. Over-expression of miR-200 in PC12 cells significantly down-regulated mRNA and protein levels of SOX2 and KLF4. Moreover, we observed two phases of dramatic down-regulation of miR-200 expression in developing rat brains correlating with periods of neuronal proliferation. In conclusion, our results indicate that increased expression of the miR-200 family promotes neuronal differentiation, while decreased expression of the miR-200 family promotes neuronal proliferation by targeting SOX2 and KLF4.
Cyclic AMP induces integrin-mediated cell adhesion through Epac and Rap1 upon stimulation of the β2-adrenergic receptor. CAMP controls many cellular processes mainly through the activation of protein kinase A (PKA). However, more recently PKA-independent pathways have been established through the exchange protein directly activated by cAMP (Epac), a guanine nucleotide exchange factor for the small GTPases Rap1 and Rap2. In this report, we show that cAMP can induce integrin-mediated cell adhesion through Epac and Rap1. Indeed, when Ovcar3 cells were treated with cAMP, cells adhered more rapidly to fibronectin. This cAMP effect was insensitive to the PKA inhibitor H-89. A similar increase was observed when the cells were transfected with Epac. Both the cAMP effect and the Epac effect on cell adhesion were abolished by the expression of Rap1-GTPase-activating protein, indicating the involvement of Rap1 in the signaling pathway. Importantly, a recently characterized cAMP analogue, 8-(4-chloro-phenylthio)-2′-O-methyladenosine-3′,5′-cyclic monophosphate, which specifically activates Epac but not PKA, induced Rap-dependent cell adhesion. Finally, we demonstrate that external stimuli of cAMP signaling, i.e., isoproterenol, which activates the Gαs-coupled β2-adrenergic receptor can induce integrin-mediated cell adhesion through the Epac-Rap1 pathway. From these results we conclude that cAMP mediates receptor-induced integrin-mediated cell adhesion to fibronectin through the Epac-Rap1 signaling pathway.
Cyclin D1 as a target for the proliferative effects of PTH and PTHrP in early osteoblastic cells. PTHrP induced a proliferative cyclin D1 activation in low-density osteoblastic cells. The process was PKA and MAPK dependent and involved both AP-1 and CRE sites. In ectopic ossicles generated from implanted bone marrow stromal cells, PTH upregulated cyclin D1 after acute or intermittent anabolic treatment. These data suggest a positive role of PTH and PTHrP in the cell cycle of early osteoblasts. Introduction: The mechanisms underlying the actions of PTH and its related protein (PTHrP) in osteoblast proliferation, differentiation, and bone remodeling remain unclear. The action of PTH or PTHrP on the cell cycle during osteoblast proliferation was studied. Materials and Methods: Mouse calvarial MC3T3-E1 clone 4 cells were synchronized by serum starvation and induced with 100 nM PTHrP for 2-24 h under defined low serum conditions. Western blot, real-time PCR, EMSAs, and promoter/luciferase assays were performed to evaluate cyclin D1 expression. Pharmacological inhibitors were used to determine the relevant signaling pathways. Ectopic ossicles generated from implanted bone marrow stromal cells were treated with acute (a single 8- or 12-h injection) or intermittent anabolic PTH treatment for 7 days, and RNA and histologic analysis were performed. Results: PTHrP upregulated cyclin D1 and CDK1 and decreased p27 expression. Cyclin D1 promoter/luciferase assays showed that the PTHrP regulation involved both activator protein-1 (AP-1) and cyclic AMP response element binding protein (CRE) sites. AP-1 and CRE double mutants completely abolished the PTHrP effect of cyclin D1 transcription. Upregulation of cyclin D1 was found to be protein kinase A (PKA) and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) dependent in proliferating MC3T3-E1 cells. In vivo expression of cyclin D1 in ectopic ossicles was upregulated after a single 12-h PTH injection or intermittent anabolic PTH treatment for 7 days in early developing ossicles. Conclusions: These data indicate that PTH and PTHrP induce cyclin D1 expression in early osteoblastic cells and their action is developmental stage specific.
Cyclin f drives proliferation through scf-dependent degradation of the retinoblastoma-like tumor suppressor p130/rbl2. Cell cycle gene expression programs fuel proliferation and are universally dysregulated in cancer. The retinoblastoma (RB)-family of proteins, RB1, RBL1/p107, and RBL2/p130, coordinately represses cell cycle gene expression, inhibiting proliferation, and suppressing tumorigenesis. Phosphorylation of RB-family proteins by cyclin-dependent kinases is firmly established. Like phosphorylation, ubiquitination is essential to cell cycle control, and numerous proliferative regulators, tumor suppressors, and oncoproteins are ubiquitinated. However, little is known about the role of ubiquitin signaling in controlling RB-family proteins. A systems genetics analysis of CRISPR/Cas9 screens suggested the potential regulation of the RB-network by cyclin F, a substrate recognition receptor for the SCF family of E3 ligases. We demonstrate that RBL2/p130 is a direct substrate of SCFcyclin F. We map a cyclin F regulatory site to a flexible linker in the p130 pocket domain, and show that this site mediates binding, stability, and ubiquitination. Expression of a mutant version of p130, which cannot be ubiquitinated, severely impaired proliferative capacity and cell cycle progression. Consistently, we observed reduced expression of cell cycle gene transcripts, as well a reduced abundance of cell cycle proteins, analyzed by quantitative, iterative immunofluorescent imaging. These data suggest a key role for SCFcyclin F in the CDK-RB network and raise the possibility that aberrant p130 degradation could dysregulate the cell cycle in human cancers.
Cytidine deaminase APOBEC3B interacts with heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein K and suppresses hepatitis B virus expression. The cytidine deaminase apolipoprotein B mRNA editing catalytic subunit-3 (APOBEC3) proteins have been identified as potent inhibitors of diverse retroviruses, retrotransposons and hepatitis B virus (HBV). The mechanism of APOBEC3 proteins in the control of HBV infection, however, is less clear. Here we report that APOBEC3B (A3B) displays dual inhibitory effects on both HBsAg and HBeAg expression as well as HBV core-associated DNA synthesis. Heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein K (hnRNP K), a positive regulator of HBV expression, has been identified as a major interaction partner of A3B protein. A3B protein inhibited the binding of hnRNP K to the enhancer II of HBV (Enh II), and S gene transcription of HBV. Moreover, A3B directly suppressed HBV S gene promoter activity. Individual variation in A3B expression was observed in both normal primary hepatocytes and liver tissues. Interestingly, A3B was able to inhibit CMV and SV40 promoter-mediated gene expression. In conclusion, A3B suppresses HBV replication in hepatocytes by inhibiting hnRNP K-mediated transcription and expression of HBV genes as well as HBV core DNA synthesis. In addition, A3B protein may be a broad antiviral host factor. Thus, regulated A3B expression may contribute to non-cytolytic HBV clearance in vivo.
Cytokine expression profiles in cervical mucus from patients with cervical cancer and its precursor lesions. Human papillomavirus (HPV) infection can persist in the cervical epithelium without provoking a strong host immune response, leading to the development of cervical cancer. Cytokines, which mediate innate and adaptive immune activities, are secreted in the cervical mucus; however, there is currently no appropriate method for assessing cytokine levels in mucus specimens. Here, we employed multiplexed bead-based immunoassays to examine cytokine levels in cervical mucus using both weighted-volume and total protein concentration methods to adjust for different specimen volumes in individual patients. Out of 18 cytokines initially examined in the primary cohort patient group (n = 28), 14 were detected in more than 10% of the samples. Of these 14 cytokines, expression levels of interferon (IFN)-γ, granulocyte–macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF), RANTES, and eotaxin were significantly increased with the disease severity in the secondary cohort patient group (n = 235). We also examined associations between cytokine levels and clinical parameters, such as cytology and HPV genotype. Of the 14 cytokines, granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) was downregulated in HPV-positive specimens. Examination of co-expression patterns of cytokines in relation to HPV infection status revealed that several pairs of cytokines were simultaneously upregulated in HPV-positive cases, including INF-γ and interleukin (IL)-17A, GM-CSF and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1), GM-CSF and RANTES, IL-17A and RANTES, and MCP-1 and eotaxin. Interestingly, upregulation of GM-CSF and RANTES might reflect a shift in immuno-regulatory cytokines in HPV-positive specimens, potentially associated with more severe cervical neoplasia.
Cytokines in the Pathogenesis of Large Granular Lymphocytic Leukemia. Large granular lymphocytic leukemia (LGLL) is a lymphoproliferative disorder of older adults characterized by the clonal expansion of cytotoxic T/natural killer cells due to constitutive pro-survival signaling. In recent years, it has become clear that cytokines and their receptors are aberrantly expressed in LGLL cells. The exact initiation process of LGLL is unknown, although several cytokine-driven mechanisms have emerged. Elevated levels of several cytokines, including interleukin-15 (IL-15) and platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), have been described in LGLL patients. Evidence from humans and animal models has shown that cytokines may also contribute to the co-occurrence of a wide range of autoimmune diseases seen in patients with LGLL. The goal of this review is to provide a comprehensive analysis of the link between cytokines and pro-survival signaling in LGLL and to discuss the various strategies and research approaches that are being utilized to study this link. This review will also highlight the importance of cytokine-targeted therapeutics in the treatment of LGLL.
Cytoprotection by the modulation of mitochondrial electron transport chain: The emerging role of mitochondrial STAT3. The down regulation of mitochondrial electron transport is an emerging mechanism of cytoprotective intervention that is effective in pathologic settings such as myocardial ischemia and reperfusion when the continuation of mitochondrial respiration produces reactive oxygen species, mitochondrial calcium overload, and the release of cytochrome c to activate cell death programs. The initial target of deranged electron transport is the mitochondria themselves. In the first part of this review, we describe this concept and summarize different approaches used to regulate mitochondrial respiration by targeting complex I as a proximal site in the electron transport chain (ETC) in order to favor the cytoprotection. The second part of the review highlights the emerging role of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) in the direct, non-transcriptional regulation of ETC, as an example of a genetic approach to modulate respiration. Recent studies indicate that a pool of STAT3 resides in the mitochondria where it is necessary for the maximal activity of complexes I and II of the electron transport chain (ETC). The overexpression of mitochondrial-targeted STAT3 results in a partial blockade of electron transport at complexes I and II that does not impair mitochondrial membrane potential nor enhance the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). The targeting of transcriptionally-inactive STAT3 to mitochondria attenuates damage to mitochondria during cell stress, resulting in decreased production of ROS and retention of cytochrome c by mitochondria. The overexpression of STAT3 targeted to mitochondria unveils a novel protective approach mediated by modulation of mitochondrial respiration that is independent of STAT3 transcriptional activity. The limitation of mitochondrial respiration under pathologic circumstances can be approached by activation and overexpression of endogenous signaling mechanisms in addition to pharmacologic means. The regulation of mitochondrial respiration comprises a cardioprotective paradigm to decrease cellular injury during ischemia and reperfusion.
DACT2 is frequently methylated in human gastric cancer and methylation of DACT2 activated Wnt signaling. Dapper, Dishevelled-associated antagonist of β-catenin (DACT), is a key regulator of Wnt signaling pathway. The purpose of this study is to explore the epigenetic changes and the function of DACT2 in human gastric cancer (GC). Eight human gastric cancer cell lines, 167 cases of primary gastric cancer and 8 cases of normal gastric mucosa were involved in this study. In addition, methylation Specific PCR (MSP), semi-quantitative RT-PCR, colony formation assay, flow cytometry assay, siRNA, immunofluorescence techniques and xenograft mice models were employed. The results indicate that DACT2 is frequently methylated in human primary gastric cancer (55.7%), and that methylation of DACT2 is associated with lost or reduction in its expression (X2 test, P < 0.01). We found that DACT2 expression was regulated by promoter region hypermethylation. Methylation of DACT2 is associated with tumor differentiation, invasion and intravascular cancerous emboli (X2 test, P < 0.05, P < 0.05 and P < 0.05). In gastric cancer patients treated with 5-FU and cisplatin, the five-year survival rates are higher in DACT2 methylated cases. DACT2 inhibits cell proliferation, migration and invasion in gastric cancer cells and suppresses gastric cancer xenografts in mice. Restoration of DACT2 expression inhibits both canonical and noncanonical WNT signaling in SGC7901 cells. Restoration of DACT2 expression sensitized gastric cancer cells to paclitaxel and 5-FU. In conclusion, DACT2 is frequently methylated in human gastric cancer and DACT2 expression is silenced by promoter region hypermethylation. DACT2 suppressed gastric cancer proliferation, invasion and metastasis by inhibiting Wnt signaling both in vitro and in vivo.
DNA helix: the importance of being AT-rich. The AT-rich DNA is mostly associated with condensed chromatin, whereas the GC-rich sequence is preferably located in the dispersed chromatin. The AT-rich genes are prone to be tissue-specific (silenced in most tissues), while the GC-rich genes tend to be housekeeping (expressed in many tissues). This paper reports another important property of DNA base composition, which can affect repertoire of genes with high AT content. The GC-rich sequence is more liable to mutation. We found that Spearman correlation between human gene GC content and mutation probability is above 0.9. The change of base composition even in synonymous sites affects mutation probability of nonsynonymous sites and thus of encoded proteins. There is a unique type of housekeeping genes, which are especially unsafe when prone to mutation. Natural selection which usually removes deleterious mutations, in the case of these genes only increases the hazard because it can descend to suborganismal (cellular) level. These are cell cycle-related genes. In accordance with the proposed concept, they have low GC content of synonymous sites (despite them being housekeeping). The gene-centred protein interaction enrichment analysis (PIEA) showed the core clusters of genes whose interactants are modularly enriched in genes with AT-rich synonymous codons. This interconnected network is involved in double-strand break repair, DNA integrity checkpoints and chromosome pairing at mitosis. The damage of these genes results in genome and chromosome instability leading to cancer and other ‘error catastrophes’. Reducing the nonsynonymous mutations, the usage of AT-rich synonymous codons can decrease probability of cancer by above 20-fold.
DNA hypermethylation in lung cancer is targeted at differentiation- associated genes. Aberrant DNA hypermethylation of tumor suppressor genes is thought to be an early event in tumorigenesis. Many studies have reported the methylation status of individual genes with known involvement in cancer, but an unbiased assessment of the biological function of the collective of hypermethylated genes has not been conducted so far. Based on the observation that a variety of human cancers recapitulate developmental gene expression patterns (that is activate genes normally expressed in early development and suppress late developmental genes), we hypothesized that the silencing of differentiation-associated genes in cancer could be attributed in part to DNA hypermethylation. To this end, we investigated the developmental expression patterns of genes with hypermethylated CpG islands in primary human lung carcinomas and lung cancer cell lines. We found that DNA hypermethylation primarily affects genes that are expressed in late stages of murine lung development. Gene ontology characterization of these genes shows that they are almost exclusively involved in morphogenetic differentiation processes. Our results indicate that DNA hypermethylation in cancer functions as a selective silencing mechanism of genes that are required for the maintenance of a differentiated state. The process of cellular de-differentiation that is evident on both the microscopic and transcriptional level in cancer might at least partly be mediated by these epigenetic events. Our observations provide a mechanistic explanation for induction of differentiation upon treatment with DNA methyltransferase inhibitors.
DNA methylation and cancer. DNA methylation is an important regulator of gene transcription, and its role in carcinogenesis has been a topic of considerable interest in the last few years. Alterations in DNA methylation are common in a variety of tumors as well as in development. Of all epigenetic modifications, hypermethylation, which represses transcription of the promoter regions of tumor suppressor genes leading to gene silencing, has been most extensively studied. However, global hypomethylation has also been recognized as a cause of oncogenesis. New information concerning the mechanism of methylation and its control has led to the discovery of many regulatory proteins and enzymes. The contribution of dietary folate and methylene terahydrofolate reductase polymorphisms to methylation patterns in normal and cancer tissues is under intense investigation. As methylation occurs early and can be detected in body fluids, it may be of potential use in early detection of tumors and for determining the prognosis. Because DNA methylation is reversible, drugs like 5′-azacytidine, decitabine, and histone deacetylase inhibitors are being used to treat a variety of tumors. Novel demethylating agents such as antisense DNA methyl transferase and small interference RNA are being developed, making the field of DNA methylation wider and more exciting.
DNA methylation dependent silencing of the human glutamate transporter EAAT2 gene in glial cells. Glutamate is the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the CNS that is cleared from the extracellular space by a family of high-affinity glutamate transporters. The astroglial glutamate transporter EAAT2 is thought to carry out the uptake of the vast quantity of glutamate, and dysregulation of EAAT2 expression is involved in the pathogenesis of neurological disorders with marked excitotoxic components. Here, we present a novel epigenetic mechanism by which the human EAAT2 gene is kept in a silent state. Sequence inspection identified a classical CpG island at the EAAT2 promoter. Bisulfite analysis of the DNA methylation profile revealed that lack of EAAT2 expression in human glioma cell lines was associated with a densely methylated EAAT2 promoter. In contrast, EAAT2 positive normal human brain tissue used as reference displayed hypomethylation of the same promoter regions. In vitro methylation of EAAT2 promoter sequences indeed altered the binding properties of nuclear factors to the respective DNA sites as illustrated by electrophoretic mobility shift assay. Moreover, we observed a reduced activity of a methylated EAAT2 promoter construct as compared to the unmethylated control, both in a human glioma cell line and rodent primary astrocytes. Further supporting a role of DNA methylation for EAAT2 silencing, inhibition of DNA methyltransferases robustly enhanced EAAT2 mRNA transcription in several cell lines tested. In conclusion, the idea is put forward of an epigenetic mode of EAAT2 regulation based on the differential methylation of the gene promoter.
DNA methylation profiling in breast cancer discordant identical twins identifies DOK7 as novel epigenetic biomarker. Using whole blood from 15 twin pairs discordant for breast cancer and high-resolution (450K) DNA methylation analysis, we identified 403 differentially methylated CpG sites including known and novel potential breast cancer genes. Confirming the results in an independent validation cohort of 21 twin pairs determined the docking protein DOK7 as a candidate for blood-based cancer diagnosis. DNA hypermethylation of the promoter region was also seen in primary breast cancer tissues and cancer cell lines. Hypermethylation of DOK7 occurs years before tumor diagnosis, suggesting a role as a powerful epigenetic blood-based biomarker as well as providing insights into breast cancer pathogenesis.
DNA methylation within the I.4 promoter region correlates with CYPl19A1 gene expression in human ex vivo mature omental and subcutaneous adipocytes. Background: DNA methylation at specific CpG sites within gene promoter regions is known to regulate transcriptional activity in vitro. In human adipose tissue, basal transcription of the aromatase (CYP19A1) gene is driven primarily by the I.4 promoter however the role of DNA methylation in regulating expression in ex vivo mature adipocytes is unknown. This observational study reports the correlation of DNA methylation within the I.4 promoter region of human mature subcutaneous and omental adipocytes with aromatase expression and body composition measures.Methods: Omental and subcutaneous adipose tissue were collected from 25 obese subjects undergoing bariatric surgery and the mature adipocyte fraction purified. DNA methylation status of 5 CpG sites within a 550 base pair region encompassing the transcription start site (TSS) of promoter I.4 was determined using pyrosequencing. Relative aromatase and I.4 promoter specific mRNA expression was determined by qRT-PCR and whole body DXA performed in 25 participants.Results: Site-specific DNA methylation varied from 21 ± 10% to 81 ± 11%. In omental adipocytes percentage methylation at the I.4.1 and I.4.2 CpG sites, but not other nearby sites, was negatively correlated with relative aromatase mRNA expression (R = - 0.52, P = 0.017 and R = - 0.52, P = 0.015). In contrast subcutaneous adipocytes percentage DNA methylation at the I.4.3 and I.4.5 sites were positively correlated with relative aromatase mRNA expression (R = 0.47, P = 0.022 and R = 0.55, P = 0.004). In a small subset of patients DNA methylation at the I.4.5 site was also positively correlated with whole body lean mass, bone mineral content and density.Conclusions: In conclusion in mature adipocytes, the primary source of estradiol after menopause, increasing DNA methylation was correlated with aromatase mRNA expression and thus estradiol biosynthesis. These findings support a tissue-specific epigenetic regulation of the basal promoter activity in mature adipocytes; the mechanisms influencing this regulation and its physiological role remain to be elucidated.
DNA repair and the control of DNA methylation. The successful establishment and stable maintenance of cell identity are critical for organismal development and tissue homeostasis. Cell identity is provided by epigenetic mechanisms that facilitate a selective readout of the genome. Operating at the level of chromatin, they establish defined gene expression programs during cell differentiation. Among the epigenetic modifications in mammalian chromatin, the 5′-methylation of cytosine in CpG dinucleotides is unique in that it affects the DNA rather than histones and the biochemistry of the DNA methylating enzymes offers a mechanistic explanation for stable inheritance. Yet, DNA methylation states appear to be more dynamic and their maintenance more complex than existing models predict. Also, methylation patterns are by far not always faithfully inherited, as best exemplified by human cancers. Often, these show widespread hypo- or hypermethylation across their genomes, reflecting an underlying epigenetic instability that may have contributed to carcinogenesis. The phenotype of unstable methylation in cancer illustrates the importance of quality control in the DNA methylation system and implies the existence of proof-reading mechanisms that enforce fidelity to DNA methylation in healthy tissue. Fidelity seems particularly important in islands of unmethylated CpG-rich sequences where an accurate maintenance of un- or differentially methylated states is critical for stable expression of nearby genes. Methylation proof-reading in such sequences requires a system capable of recognition and active demethylation of erroneously methylated CpGs. Active demethylation of 5-methylcytosine has been known to occur for long, but the underlying mechanisms have remained enigmatic and controversial. However, recent progress in this direction substantiates a role of DNA repair in such processes. This review will address general aspects of cytosine methylation stability in mammalian DNA and explore a putative role of DNA repair in methylation control.
DNMT3L is a regulator of X chromosome compaction and post-meiotic gene transcription. Previous studies on the epigenetic regulator DNA methyltransferase 3-Like (DNMT3L), have demonstrated it is an essential regulator of paternal imprinting and early male meiosis. Dnmt3L is also a paternal effect gene, i.e., wild type offspring of heterozygous mutant sires display abnormal phenotypes suggesting the inheritance of aberrant epigenetic marks on the paternal chromosomes. In order to reveal the mechanisms underlying these paternal effects, we have assessed X chromosome meiotic compaction, XY chromosome aneuploidy rates and global transcription in meiotic and haploid germ cells from male mice heterozygous for Dnmt3L. XY bodies from Dnmt3L heterozygous males were significantly longer than those from wild types, and were associated with a three-fold increase in XY bearing sperm. Loss of a Dnmt3L allele resulted in deregulated expression of a large number of both X-linked and autosomal genes within meiotic cells, but more prominently in haploid germ cells. Data demonstrate that similar to embryonic stem cells, DNMT3L is involved in an auto-regulatory loop in germ cells wherein the loss of a Dnmt3L allele resulted in increased transcription from the remaining wild type allele. In contrast, however, within round spermatids, this auto-regulatory loop incorporated the alternative non-coding alternative transcripts. Consistent with the mRNA data, we have localized DNMT3L within spermatids and sperm and shown that the loss of a Dnmt3L allele results in a decreased DNMT3L content within sperm. These data demonstrate previously unrecognised roles for DNMT3L in late meiosis and in the transcriptional regulation of meiotic and post-meiotic germ cells. These data provide a potential mechanism for some cases of human Klinefelter's and Turner's syndromes.
DUSP-1 gene expression is not regulated by promoter methylation in diabetes-associated cardiac hypertrophy. Background: The exact mechanism causing decreased expression of the dual specific phosphatase-1 (DUSP-1) gene in diabetes-associated cardiac hypertrophy is not known. DNA promoter methylation is often associated with decreased gene expression in many diseases including cardiovascular diseases. So, we investigated whether epigenetic silencing via promoter methylation is involved in the decreased expression of DUSP-1 in diabetes-associated cardiac hypertrophy. Methods: Real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and Western blotting confirmed the down regulation of the DUSP-1 gene at transcriptional and translational levels. Bisulfite-converted DNA samples from myocardium of rat model of diabetic cardiomyopathy (DCM), high glucose (HG)-treated neonatal rat cardiomyocytes (NRCMs) and cardiac tissues from archived human myocardial DCM autopsies along with their respective controls were analyzed for methylation in the promoter region of the DUSP-1 gene. Results: We observed no methylation in the promoter regions of the DUSP-1 gene in DCM rat hearts, in HG-treated NRCMs (between -355 bp and -174 bp) and in cardiac tissues from archived human myocardial DCM autopsies (between -274 bp and -73 bp). Conclusion: Methylation-mediated silencing of the DUSP-1 promoter does not appear to be associated with reduced expression, indicating the involvement of other factors in specific suppression of DUSP-1 in diabetes-associated cardiac hypertrophy.
Decoding the centromeric nucleosome through CENP-N. Centromere protein (CENP) A, a histone H3 variant, is a key epigenetic determinant of chromosome domains known as centromeres. Centromeres nucleate kinetochores, multi-subunit complexes that capture spindle microtubules to promote chromosome segregation during mitosis. Two kinetochore proteins, CENP-C and CENP-N, recognize CENP-A in the context of a rare CENP-A nucleosome. Here, we reveal the structural basis for the exquisite selectivity of CENP-N for centromeres. CENP-N uses charge and space complementarity to decode the L1 loop that is unique to CENP-A. It also engages in extensive interactions with a 15-base pair segment of the distorted nucleosomal DNA double helix, in a position predicted to exclude chromatin remodelling enzymes. Besides CENP-A, stable centromere recruitment of CENP-N requires a coincident interaction with a newly identified binding motif on nucleosome-bound CENP-C. Collectively, our studies clarify how CENP-N and CENP-C decode and stabilize the non-canonical CENP-A nucleosome to enforce epigenetic centromere specification and kinetochore assembly.
Decreased expression of B cell related genes in leukocytes of women with Parkinson's disease. Background: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a complex disorder caused by genetic, environmental and age-related factors, and it is more prevalent in men. We aimed to identify differentially expressed genes in peripheral blood leukocytes (PBLs) that might be involved in PD pathogenesis. Transcriptomes of 30 female PD-patients and 29 age- and sex-matched controls were profiled using GeneChip Human Exon 1.0 ST Arrays. Samples were from unrelated Ashkenazi individuals, non-carriers of LRRK2 G2019S or GBA founder mutations. Results: Differential expression was detected in 115 genes (206 exons), with over-representation of immune response annotations. Thirty genes were related to B cell functions, including the uniquely B cell-expressed IGHM and IGHD, the B cell surface molecules CD19, CD22 and CD79A, and the B cell gene regulator, PAX5. Quantitative-RT-PCR confirmation of these 6 genes in 79 individuals demonstrated decreased expression, mainly in women patients, independent of PD-pharmacotherapy status. Conclusions: Our results suggest that the down regulation of genes related to B cell activity reflect the involvement of these cells in PD in Ashkenazi individuals and represents a molecular aspect of gender-specificity in PD.
Defining the mammalian CArGome. Serum response factor (SRF) binds a 1216-fold degenerate cis element known as the CArG box. CArG boxes are found primarily in muscle- and growth-factor-associated genes although the full spectrum of functional CArG elements in the genome (the CArGome) has yet to be defined. Here we describe a genome-wide screen to further define the functional mammalian CArGome. A computational approach involving comparative genomic analyses of human and mouse orthologous genes uncovered >100 hypothetical SRF-dependent genes, including 10 previously identified SRF targets, harboring a conserved CArG element within 4000 bp of the annotated transcription start site (TSS). We PCR-cloned 89 hypothetical SRF targets and subjected each of them to at least two of several validations including luciferase reporter, gel shift, chromatin immunoprecipitation, and mRNA expression following RNAi knockdown of SRF; 60/89 (67%) of the targets were validated. Interestingly, 26 of the validated SRF target genes encode for cytoskeletal/contractile or adhesion proteins. RNAi knockdown of SRF diminishes expression of several SRF-dependent cytoskeletal genes and elicits an attending perturbation in the cytoarchitecture of both human and rodent cells. These data illustrate the power of integrating existing algorithms to interrogate the genome in a relatively unbiased fashion for cis-regulatory element discovery. In this manner, we have further expanded the mammalian CArGome with the discovery of an array of cyto-contractile genes that coordinate normal cytoskeletal homeostasis. We suggest one function of SRF is that of an ancient master regulator of the actin cytoskeleton.
Deletion of A-antigen in a human cancer cell line is associated with reduced promoter activity of CBF/NF-Y binding region, and possibly with enhanced DNA methylation of A transferase promoter. Employing blood group A- and A+ clones derived from the same parental colonic cancer cell lines, we studied the molecular mechanism of deletion/reduction vs. continuous expression of antigen A in A tumors, a crucial determinant of human tumor malignancy. A- transferase mRNA level in one of the A- clones (A- SW480) was undetectable, while that in A+ SW480 was strongly detectable by semiquantitative RT-PCR. Relatively lower (~ 1/3) transcript level was detectable in another A- clone (A- HT29) in comparison to A+ HT29 by the same RT-PCR procedure, although none of these tumor cell lines showed detectable level of A transcript by Northern blotting or RNase protection methods. Therefore, subsequent studies were performed employing A- vs. A+ SW480 clones. Deletion of A transcript in A- cells was not due to gene deletion, since Southern blot analysis showed equal presence of genomic DNA regardless of A- vs. A+ (SW480 or HT29) or B+ (KATOIII) tumor cells. Two transcriptional control mechanisms leading to differences of A expression in SW480 cells are indicated. i. Luciferase assay in A- and A+ SW480 cells showed that promoter activities of segments of 5' flanking sequence of ABO gene reflected transcript levels in these cell lines. The enhancing activity of a 43 bp tandem repeat unit located between -3899 to -3618 was reduced in A- compared to A+ cells. ii. Distinct differences in the pattern of CpG dinucleotide methylation were found in A- vs. A+ cells. Therefore, the methylation process of A promoter DNA may be another important factor controlling A activity in SW480 tumor cells. Since proliferation and motility of tumor cells are associated closely with A expression, transcription control mechanism for expression of A transferase as described above may be of crucial importance in defining human tumor malignancy.
Deletion of the sec4 Homolog srgA from Aspergillus fumigatus Is Associated with an Impaired Stress Response, Attenuated Virulence and Phenotypic Heterogeneity. Small GTPases of the Rab family are master regulators of membrane trafficking, responsible for coordinating the sorting, packaging and delivery of membrane-bound vesicles to specific sites within eukaryotic cells. The contribution of these proteins to the biology of the human pathogenic fungus Aspergillus fumigatus has not been explored. In this study, we characterized the srgA gene, encoding a Rab GTPase closely related to Sec4. We found that a GFP-SrgA fusion protein accumulated preferentially at hyphal tips and mature condiophores. The radial growth of a ΔsrgA mutant was impaired on both rich and minimal medium, consistent with a role for SrgA in filamentous growth. In addition, the ΔsrgA mutant revealed dysmorphic conidiophores that produced conidia with heterogeneous morphology. The ΔsrgA mutant was hypersensitive to brefeldin A-mediated inhibition of vesicular trafficking and showed increased temperature sensitivity relative to wild type A. fumigatus. However, the most striking phenotype of this mutant was its phenotypic heterogeneity. Individual colonies isolated from the original ΔsrgA mutant showed variable morphology with colony sectoring. In addition, each isolate of the ΔsrgA mutant displayed divergent phenotypes with respect to thermotolerance, in vitro stress response and virulence in a Galleria mellonella infection model. Taken together, these results indicate that SrgA contributes to the asexual development and filamentous growth of A. fumigatus. However, the discordant phenotypes observed among individual isolates of the ΔsrgA mutant suggest that the absence of srgA exerts selective pressure for the acquisition of compensatory changes, such as second-site suppressor mutations.
Deoxyguanosine kinase deficiency presenting as neonatal hemochromatosis. Mutations in DGUOK result in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) depletion and may present as neonatal liver failure. Neonatal hemochromatosis (NH1) is a liver disorder of uncertain and varied etiology characterized by hepatic and non-reticuloendothelial siderosis. To date, deoxyguanosine kinase (dGK2) deficiency has not been formally recognized in cases of NH. We report an African American female neonate with clinical and autopsy findings consistent with NH, and mtDNA depletion due to a homozygous mutation in DGUOK. This report highlights hepatocerebral mtDNA depletion in the differential of neonatal tyrosinemia, advocates considering dGK deficiency in cases of NH, and posits mitochondrial oxidative processes in the pathogenesis of NH.
Depletion of mitochondrial DNA by down-regulation of deoxyguanosine kinase expression in non-proliferating HeLa cells. Purine deoxyribonucleotides required for mitochondrial DNA replication are either imported from the cytosol or derived from phosphorylation of deoxyadenosine or deoxyguanosine catalyzed by mitochondrial deoxyguanosine kinase (DGUOK). DGUOK deficiency has been linked to mitochondrial DNA depletion syndromes suggesting an important role for this enzyme in dNTP supply. We have generated HeLa cell lines with 20-30% decreased levels of DGUOK mRNA by the expression of small interfering RNAs directed towards the DGUOK mRNA. The cells with decreased expression of the enzyme showed similar levels of mtDNA as control cells when grown exponentially in culture. However, mtDNA levels rapidly decreased in the cells when cell cycle arrest was induced by serum starvation. DNA incorporation of 9-β-d-arabino-furanosylguanine (araG) was lower in the cells with decreased deoxyguanosine kinase expression, but the total rate of araG phosphorylation was increased in the cells. The increase in araG phosphorylation was shown to be due to increased expression of deoxycytidine kinase. In summary, our findings show that DGUOK is required for mitochondrial DNA replication in resting cells and that small changes in expression of this enzyme may cause mitochondrial DNA depletion. Our data also suggest that alterations in the expression level of DGUOK may induce compensatory changes in the expression of other nucleoside kinases.
Dermo-1, a multifunctional basic helix-loop-helix protein, represses MyoD transactivation via the HLH domain, MEF2 interaction, and chromatin deacetylation. Dermo-1 is a multifunctional basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factor that has been shown to be a potent negative regulator for gene transcription and apoptosis. To understand the molecular mechanisms that mediate the function of Dermo-1, we generated a series of Dermo-1 mutants and used a MyoD-mediated transcriptional activation model to characterize the roles of its N-terminal, bHLH, and C-terminal structural domains in transcriptional repression. Both the C-terminal and HLH domains of Dermo-1 were essential for its repression of MyoD-mediated transactivation. Dermo-1 repressed, in a dose-dependent fashion, the transactivation activity of myocyte enhancer factor 2 (MEF2), a protein known to cooperate with MyoD in activating E-box-dependent gene expression. Both the N- and C-terminal domains of Dermo-1, but not the bHLH domain, were required for the inhibition of MEF2, suggesting that Dermo-1 inhibits both MyoD- and MEF2-dependent transactivation but through different mechanisms. Dermo-1 interacted directly with MEF2 and selectively repressed the MEF2 transactivation domain. An overall increase of histone acetylation induced by trichostatin A treatment reduced Dermo-1 transcriptional repression activity, suggesting that histone deacetylation is involved in Dermo-1-mediated transcriptional repression. Together, these results suggest that MEF2 is an important target in Dermo-1-mediated transcriptional repression and provide initial evidence of the involvement of histone acetylation in Dermo-1 transcriptional repression.
Development and characterization of NEX-Pten, a novel forebrain excitatory neuron-specific knockout mouse. The phosphatase and tensin homolog located on chromosome 10 (PTEN) suppresses the activity of the phosphoinositide-3-kinase/Akt/mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway, a signaling cascade critically involved in the regulation of cell proliferation and growth. Human patients carrying germ line PTEN mutations have an increased predisposition to tumors, and also display a variety of neurological symptoms and increased risk of epilepsy and autism, implicating PTEN in neuronal development and function. Consistently, loss of Pten in mouse neural cells results in ataxia, seizures, cognitive abnormalities, increased soma size and synaptic abnormalities. To better understand how Pten regulates the excitability of principal forebrain neurons, a factor that is likely to be altered in cognitive disorders, epilepsy and autism, we generated a novel conditional knockout mouse line (NEX-Pten) in which Cre, under the control of the NEX promoter, drives the deletion of Pten specifically in early postmitotic, excitatory neurons of the developing forebrain. Homozygous mutant mice exhibited a massive enlargement of the forebrain, and died shortly after birth due to excessive mTOR activation. Analysis of the neonatal cerebral cortex further identified molecular defects resulting from Pten deletion that likely affect several aspects of neuronal development and excitability.
Development and functional characterization of insulin-releasing human pancreatic beta cell lines produced by electrofusion. Three novel human insulin-releasing cell lines designated 1.1B4, 1.4E7, and 1.1E7 were generated by electrofusion of freshly isolated of human pancreatic beta cells and the immortal human PANC-1 epithelial cell line. Functional studies demonstrated glucose sensitivity and responsiveness to known modulators of insulin secretion. Western blot, RT-PCR, and immunohistochemistry showed expression of the major genes involved in proinsulin processing and the pancreatic beta cell stimulussecretion pathway including PC1/3, PC2, GLUT-1, glucokinase, and K-ATP channel complex (Sur1 and Kir6.2) and the voltage-dependent L-type Ca2+ channel. The cells stained positively for insulin, and 1.1B4 cells were used to demonstrate specific staining for insulin, C-peptide, and proinsulin together with insulin secretory granules by electron microscopy. Analysis of metabolic function indicated intact mechanisms for glucose uptake, oxidation/utilization, and phosphorylation by glucokinase. Glucose, alanine, and depolarizing concentrations of K+ were all able to increase [Ca2+]i in at least two of the cell lines tested. Insulin secretion was also modulated by other nutrients, hormones, and drugs acting as stimulators or inhibitors in normal beta cells. Subscapular implantation of the 1.1B4 cell line improved hyperglycemia and resulted in glucose lowering in streptozotocin-diabetic SCID mice. These novel human electrofusion-derived beta cell lines therefore exhibit stable characteristics reminiscent of normal pancreatic beta cells, thereby providing an unlimited source of human insulin-producing cells for basic biochemical studies and pharmacological drug testing plus proof of concept for cellular insulin replacement therapy.
Differences in sulfotyrosine binding amongst CXCR1 and CXCR2 chemokine ligands. Tyrosine sulfation, a post-translational modification found on many chemokine receptors, typically increases receptor affinity for the chemokine ligand. A previous bioinformatics analysis suggested that a sulfotyrosine (sY)-binding site on the surface of the chemokine CXCL12 may be conserved throughout the chemokine family. However, the extent to which receptor tyrosine sulfation contributes to chemokine binding has been examined in only a few instances. Computational solvent mapping correctly identified the conserved sulfotyrosine-binding sites on CXCL12 and CCL21 detected by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy, demonstrating its utility for hot spot analysis in the chemokine family. In this study, we analyzed five chemokines that bind to CXCR2, a subset of which also bind to CXCR1, to identify hot spots that could participate in receptor binding. A cleft containing the predicted sulfotyrosine-binding pocket was identified as a principal hot spot for ligand binding on the structures of CXCL1, CXCL2, CXCL7, and CXCL8, but not CXCL5. Sulfotyrosine titrations monitored via NMR spectroscopy showed specific binding to CXCL8, but not to CXCL5, which is consistent with the predictions from the computational solvent mapping. The lack of CXCL5–sulfotyrosine interaction and the presence of CXCL8–sulfotyrosine binding suggests a role for receptor post-translational modifications regulating ligand selectivity.
Differential activities of E2f family members: Unique functions in regulating transcription. Several regulators of E2F transcriptional activity, including the retinoblastoma tumor suppressor (Rb) protein, p16(Ink4a), cyclin D1, and cyclin-dependent kinase 4, have been shown to be targets for genetic alterations that underlie the development of human cancers. Deregulation of E2F transcription factors as a result of these genetic alterations is believed to contribute to tumor development. This hypothesis is supported by the finding that at least some members of the E2F gene family can contribute to oncogenic transformation when overexpressed. Each E2F family member can dimerize with DP proteins, bind consensus E2F sites, and activate transcription. Several pieces of evidence suggest, however, that the various E2F species have unique functions in regulating transcription. We compared the abilities of E2F1, E2F4, and E2F5 to activate transcription from a variety of gene promoters and found that in all cases E2F1 was the most potent activator, followed by E2F4 and then by E2F5. Construction of chimeric proteins between E2F1 and E2F4 demonstrated that either the carboxy terminus or the amino terminus of E2F1 could make E2F4 a more potent activator. In contrast, neither the carboxy terminus nor the amino terminus of E2F1 could significantly increase the activity of E2F5. We found that, consistent with a role for E2F5 in transcriptional repression, E2F5's binding partner p130, like Rb, could also actively repress transcription when directly bound to a target promoter.
Differential expression and activation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase α, β, γ, and δ in inflammatory cell lineages. Four p38 mitogen-activated protein kinases (p38α, β, γ, δ) have been described. To understand the role of p38 family members in inflammation, we determined their relative expression in cells that participate in the inflammatory process. Expression was measured at the level of mRNA by reverse-transcriptase PCR and protein by Western blot analysis, p38α was the dominant form of p38 in monocytes; expression of p38δ was low and p38β was undetected. In macrophages, p38α and p38δ were abundant, but p38β was undetected, p38α and p38δ were also expressed by neutrophils, CD4+ T cells, and endothelial cells. Again, p38β was not detected in neutrophils, although low amounts were present in CD4+ T cells. In contrast, p38β was abundant in endothelial cells, p38γ protein was not detected in any cell type, although p38γ mRNA was present in endothelial cells. Immunokinase assays showed a strong activation of p38α and a lesser activation of p38δ in LPS-stimulated macrophages. Abs specific for mono- and dual-phosphorylated forms of p38 suggested that LPS induces dual phosphorylation of p38α, but primarily mono-phosphorylation of p38δ. IL-1β activated p38α and p38β in endothelial cells. However, p38α was the more activated form based on kinase assays and phosphorylation analysis. Expression and activation patterns of p38α in macrophages and endothelial cells suggest that p38α plays a major role in the inflammatory response. Additional studies will be needed to define the contribution of p38δ to macrophage, neutrophil, and T cell functions, and of p38β to signaling in endothelial cells and T cells.
Diminished phosphodiesterase-8B potentiates biphasic insulin response to glucose. cAMP activates multiple signal pathways, crucial for the pancreatic β-cells function and survival and is a major potentiator of insulin release. A family of phosphodiesterases (PDEs) terminate the cAMP signals. We examined the expression of PDEs in rat β-cells and their role in the regulation of insulin response. Using RT-PCR and Western blot analyses, we identified PDE3A, PDE3B, PDE4B, PDE4D, and PDE8B in rat islets and in INS-1E cells and several possible splice variants of these PDEs. Specific depletion of PDE3A with small interfering (si) RNA (siPDE3A) led to a small (67%) increase in the insulin response to glucose in INS-1E cells but not rat islets. siPDE3A had no effect on the glucagon-like peptide-1 (10 nmol/ liter) potentiated insulin response in rat islets. Depletion in PDE8B levels in rat islets using similar technology (siPDE8B) increased insulin response to glucose by 70%, the potentiation being of similar magnitude during the first and second phase insulin release. The siPDE8B-potentiated insulin response was further increased by 23% when glucagon-like peptide-1 was included during the glucose stimulus. In conclusion, PDE8B is expressed in a small number of tissues unrelated to glucose or fat metabolism. We propose that PDE8B, an 3-isobutyl-1- methylxanthine-insensitive cAMP-specific phosphodiesterase, could prove a novel target for enhanced insulin response, affecting a specific pool of cAMP involved in the control of insulin granule trafficking and exocytosis. Finally, we discuss evidence for functional compartmentation of cAMP in pancreatic β-cells.
Discovery of 318 new risk loci for type 2 diabetes and related vascular outcomes among 1.4 million participants in a multi-ancestry meta-analysis. We investigated type 2 diabetes (T2D) genetic susceptibility via multi-ancestry meta-analysis of 228,499 cases and 1,178,783 controls in the Million Veteran Program (MVP), DIAMANTE, Biobank Japan and other studies. We report 568 associations, including 286 autosomal, 7 X-chromosomal and 25 identified in ancestry-specific analyses that were previously unreported. Transcriptome-wide association analysis detected 3,568 T2D associations with genetically predicted gene expression in 687 novel genes; of these, 54 are known to interact with FDA-approved drugs. A polygenic risk score (PRS) was strongly associated with increased risk of T2D-related retinopathy and modestly associated with chronic kidney disease (CKD), peripheral artery disease (PAD) and neuropathy. We investigated the genetic etiology of T2D-related vascular outcomes in the MVP and observed statistical SNP–T2D interactions at 13 variants, including coronary heart disease (CHD), CKD, PAD and neuropathy. These findings may help to identify potential therapeutic targets for T2D and genomic pathways that link T2D to vascular outcomes.
Discussion on the molecular mechanism of Duhuo Jisheng decoction in treating osteoarthritis based on network pharmacology and molecular docking. In this study, network pharmacology and molecular docking technology were used to explore the molecular mechanisms of the Duhuo Jisheng decoction in the treatment of osteoarthritis (OA). The chemical composition of the prescriptions was obtained from the traditional Chinese medicine systems pharmacology database and analysis platform (TCMSP) database and the retrieved literature. Targets for the active ingredients were obtained using TCMSP and the Swiss Target Prediction Database. Disease targets were obtained from GeneCards and DisGeNET databases. The online tool, Venny, was used to obtain common targets for drugs and diseases. Protein-protein interactions (PPI) between common targets were analyzed using the search tool for the retrieval of interacting genes/proteins (STRING) database. Common targets were analyzed for gene ontology (GO) and Kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment using the database for annotation, visualization and integrated discovery (DAVID) database. Molecular docking of the first 10 targets and first 10 components was verified using AutoDock Tools software, and the docking diagram was visualized using PyMOL software. After screening, 210 chemical components of the Duhuo Jisheng decoction (DHJSD) were identified. The 253 common targets of drugs and diseases were combined by eliminating repeat values. Based on PPI network analysis, the top ten targets were SRC, STAT3, MAPK3, MAPK1, RELA, PIK3R1, HSP90AA1, TP53, EP300, and AKT1. KEGG analysis showed that DHJSD could regulate the HIF-1, PI3K-Akt, and JAK-STAT signaling pathways. The biological processes involved include inflammatory reactions, the negative regulation of apoptosis, and the positive regulation of cell proliferation. Molecular docking results showed that all targets, except the RELA protein, showed good binding to the compounds, indicating that the 10 components might exert therapeutic effects by binding to the above targets. DHJSD can treat OA by regulating the HIF-1, PI3K-Akt, and JAK-STAT signaling pathways. The proteins involved were SRC, STAT3, MAPK3, MAPK1, and PIK3R1. In this study, network pharmacology was used to predict the mechanism of DHJSD in OA treatment, which was verified by molecular docking to provide experimental research ideas and scientific basis for OA treatment.
Disruption of dna repair by cell cycle and transcriptional cdk inhibition. The eukaryotic cell cycle is a tightly regulated series of events coordinated by the periodic activation of members of the cyclin dependent kinases (CDK) family. In addition, a subset of CDK family members play critical roles in transcriptional regulation. Dysregulation of CDK activity by a variety of genetic and epigenetic mechanisms is universally observed in cancer and is thought to be a primary driving force in carcinogenesis, such that there has been longstanding interest in targeting CDKs for cancer therapy. Along with orchestrating the cell cycle and transcriptional events, CDKs have also been directly implicated in the DNA damage response. CDK activity governs cell cycle phase and thus indirectly affects double strand break (DSB) repair pathway choice. Recent evidence also directly implicates CDKs 1 and 2 in homologous recombination DNA repair (HRR) since their activities are crucial at early stages of the repair pathway. These findings suggest that CDK inhibition may not only address aberrant cell proliferation, but may also sensitize cells to a variety of DNA damaging agents as well as PARP inhibition.
Disruption of the low affinity receptor-binding site in NGF allows neuronal survival and differentiation by binding to the trk gene product. Nerve growth factor (NGF), like many other growth factors and hormones, binds to two different receptor molecules on responsive cells. The product of the proto-oncogene trk, p140trk, is a tyrosine kinase receptor that has been identified as a signal-transducing receptor for NGF, while the role of the low affinity NGF receptor, p75NGFR, in signal transduction is less clear. The crystal structure of NGF has recently been determined, although structures involved in receptor binding and biological activity are unknown. Here we show that Lys-32, Lys-34, and Lys-95 form a positively charged interface involved in binding to p75NGFR. Simultaneous modification of Lys-32 with either of the two other lysines resulted in loss of binding to p75NGFR. Despite the lack of binding to p75NGFR, these mutants retained binding to p140trk and biological activity, demonstrating a functional dissociation between the two NGF receptors.
Dissection of macrophage differentiation pathways in cutaneous macrophage disorders and in vitro. Abstract Macrophages play important roles in immunity and inflammation, and in allergic, granulomatous and neoplastic diseases. Here, we present the indepth results of an ongoing study of macrophage differentiation pathways in cutaneous macrophage disorders and in vitro. Up to now, a total of 40 cases of cutaneous macrophage disorders (histiocytoses and granulomas) and related diseases were examined using a panel of monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies to macrophage differentiation antigens (mAb MS‐1, mAb αCDla, mAb αCD34, mAb RM 3/1, mAb αCD11c, mAb αCD36, mAb MAC 387, mAb 27E10, polyclonal antibodies ccMRP‐8 and ‐14, mAb aCD68. mAb 25F9, mAb DRC1‐R4/23, and mAb 1F10). Of these, MS‐1 high molecular weight protein, synthesized by non‐continuous sinusoidal endothelial cells and highly dendritic perivascular macrophages in normal human organs, is the most specific macrophage differentiation marker. MS‐1 high molecular weight protein is selectively expressed by cutaneous non‐Langerhans cell histiocytoses, and proves to be a valuable diagnostic tool for these diseases. MS‐1 high molecular weight protein is not found in Langerhans cell histiocytosis cells, epithelioid cells in sarcoidosis, and palisading histio‐cytes in granuloma annulare. MS‐1+ macrophages may be found intermingled in cellular type dermatofibroma and in foreign body granulomas; they differ from MS‐1+ non‐Langerhans cell histiocytosis cells by their highly dendritic morphology, and thus rather resemble the MS‐1+ macrophages in normal skin. RM 3/1 antigen shows a similar, but broader expression pattern including non‐Langerhans cell histiocytoses, xanthel‐asmata palpebrarum, foreign body granulomas, granuloma annulare, and cellular type dermatofibroma. Moreover, xanthelasmata palpebrarum para‐digmatically represent a class of macrophage lesions with strong RM 3/1, but little MS‐1 antigen expression. In sarcoidosis, RM 3/1 + macrophages are only found at the very periphery of epithelioid cell granulomas. In contrast, 25F9 antigen is strongly and consistently expressed in epithelioid cells of sarcoidosis, and in foreign body granulomas. In cultured human monocytes/macrophages, RM 3/1 antigen is expressed early on, while MS‐1 high molecular weight protein and 25F9 antigen are late and very late macrophage differentiation antigens, respectively. Expression of RM 3/1 antigen and MS‐1 high molecular weight protein is inducible by glucocorticoid and interleukin‐4, and less so by interleukin‐13 and interlcukin‐10, and combinations thereof, while 25F9 antigen seems to be less influenced by these agents. Interferon‐y (and less so tumor necrosis factor‐ex) inhibit expression of all three antigens in cultured human monocytes/macrophages. In monocytic leukemia cell line THP‐1. RM 3/1 antigen is only induced by a combined treatment of phorbolester and glucocorticoid and peaks at 3‐7 days. In different subclones of the cell line, 25F9 antigen is either inducible by phorbolester alone or by combined treatment with glucocorticoid or it is constitutively expressed and hardly modulated. In contrast, MS‐1 high molecular weight protein cannot be induced in THP‐1 cells by the agents tested. Inhibition of MS‐1 high molecular weight protein, and RM 3/1 and 25F9 antigens by interferon‐y suggests that macrophages characterized by these phenotypic traits must by counted among the alternatively activated macrophage populations. As a result of our study, alternative macrophage activation should be viewed as a multifacetted process resulting in various, partially overlapping, partially complementary macrophage phenolypes both in vivo and in vitro.
Distal regulation of alternative splicing by splicing enhancer in equine β-casein intron 1. The complexity of cotranscriptional splicing is reflected in the coordinated interplay between various cis-elements and trans-acting factors. In this report, we demonstrated that a cis-element in intron 1 of the equine β-casein gene (intronic splicing enhancer 1, ISE1) increases the inclusion of all weak exons in its pre-mRNA. The ISE1 also functioned on a hybrid transcript, which was transcribed from the α-globin promoter, where it increased the inclusion of the human fibronectin EDA exon and the β-casein exon 5. The region of ISE1 necessary for its function included the same sequence as is found in some exonic splicing enhancers. Since the ISE1 influenced the splicing of the entire transcript from intron 1, we propose a model for the cotranscriptional splicing of β-casein mRNA, where the 5′ end of the growing transcript remains associated with the C-terminal domain of RNA polymerase II. Thus, the ISE1 remains in close proximity to the mRNA exit groove throughout transcription and influences all weak exons as soon as they are copied.
Disulfide mutants of the binding domain of the rat low affinity nerve growth factor receptor (p75(NGFR)). The binding domain of the low affinity nerve growth factor receptor (p75(NGFR)) is built from four 'cysteine repeats,' with almost identical patterns of half-cystine residues. To study the pattern of disulfide bridging within each cysteine repeat, we have mutated pairs of cysteine residues, primarily in the fourth repeat, and have tested the relative ability of each mutant to be cross-linked to the nerve growth factor after transient expression in COS 7 cells. The results give an indication of the relative importance of different disulfide bonds for the stability of the active conformation. Immunofluorescent staining shows that all of these proteins, even those that may be partially misfolded, are expressed to varying degrees on the surface of COS cells. They can also be detected by the monoclonal antibody MC192 on a Western blot following electrophoresis on a nondenaturing gel. Some cannot, however, be detected by MC192 on a Western blot after heat denaturation in SDS. The ability to refold under these conditions correlates in general with the ability of the mutant protein to bind nerve growth factor on the surface of COS cells.
Dopaminergic Regulation of Galanin Gene Expression in the Rat Anterior Pituitary Gland. Estrogen dramatically increases galanin mRNA and peptide levels in the rat anterior pituitary gland. We recently reported that galanin secretion in vitro from estrogen‐exposed anterior pituitary cells is regulated by hypothalamic factors; dopamine and somatostatin inhibit galanin secretion, and thyrotrophin‐releasing hormone stimulates galanin release. To determine whether galanin is regulated by a dopaminergic mechanism in vivo, we used ovariectomized Fischer 344 rats treated with 17ß‐estradiol‐containing or empty Silastic capsules. Rats were also administered bromocriptine, a dopamine receptor agonist, haloperidol, a dopamine receptor antagonist, or placebo for 2 weeks. Galanin peptide levels were measured in the anterior pituitary, neurointermediate lobe, medial basal hypothalamus, and plasma by radioimmunoassay. Plasma and pituitary prolactin levels were also determined. Bromocriptine decreased gaianin peptide levels in the anterior pituitary gland of ovariectomized rats by 30%, but had no effect on galanin in the neurointermediate lobe or medial basal hypothalamus. In contrast, haloperidol had no effect on galanin in the anterior pituitary or medial basal hypothalamus of ovariectomized rats, but decreased galanin peptide levels in the neurointermediate lobe. In the anterior pituitary gland of estrogen‐treated rats, bromocriptine increased and haloperidol decreased both galanin and prolactin levels. Galanin mRNA levels were quantified in the anterior pituitary gland by solution hybridization. Bromocriptine increased galanin mRNA levels 3‐fold in the anterior pituitary, whereas haloperidol had no effect. Galanin mRNA levels in the anterior pituitary were elevated 10‐fold by estrogen. Bromocriptine reduced galanin mRNA levels in the pituitary by 50% in estrogen‐treated rats, where again haloperidol had no effect. Estrogen increased plasma galanin levels 4‐fold compared to ovariectomized rats and this effect was reduced 60% by bromocriptine and increased 20% by haloperidol. We conclude 1) galanin synthesis and release from the estrogen‐exposed anterior pituitary gland is inhibited by a dopaminergic mechanism in vivo, 2) dopamine regulates galanin gene expression in the ovariectomized rat, 3) the changes in galanin peptide levels in the anterior pituitary of rats treated with estrogen and dopamine receptor ligands are primarily due to alterations in peptide secretion, and 4) galanin release from the neurointermediate lobe may also be regulated by a dopaminergic mechanism in vivo. These data, in conjunction with previous studies, provide evidence for the co‐regulation of galanin and prolactin in estrogen‐treated rats, and further discriminate between the regulation of galanin in the hypothalamus and pituitary gland.
Down-Regulated CUEDC2 Increases GDNF Expression by Stabilizing CREB Through Reducing Its Ubiquitination in Glioma. Abnormally high expression of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) derived from glioma cells has essential impacts on gliomagenesis and development, but the molecular basis underlying increased GDNF expression in glioma cells remain unclear. This work aimed to study the molecular mechanisms that may explain the accumulation of GDNF in glioma. Firstly, we observed that cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB), known as an important transcription factor for binding of GDNF promoter region, was highly expressed with an apparent accumulation into the nucleus of glioma cells, which may contribute to the transcription of GDNF. Secondly, CUE domain-containing protein 2 (CUEDC2), a ubiquitin-regulated protein, could increase the amount of binding between the E3 ligase tripartite motif-containing 21 (TRIM21) and CREB and affect the CREB level. Like our previous study, it showed that there was a significantly down-regulation of CUEDC2 in glioma. Finally, our data suggest that GDNF expression is indirectly regulated by transcription factor ubiquitination. Indeed, down-regulation of CUEDC2, decreased the ubiquitination and degradation of CREB, which was associated to high levels of GDNF. Furthermore, abundant CREB involved in the binding to the GDNF promoter region contributes to GDNF high expression in glioma cells. Collectively, it was verified the GDNF expression was affected by CREB ubiquitination regulated by CUEDC2 level.
Downregulation of GATA6 in mTOR-inhibited human aortic endothelial cells: Effects on TNF-α-induced VCAM-1 expression and monocytic cell adhesion. Increased expression of vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 (VCAM-1) on the aortic endothelium is an early marker of atherogenesis, promoted in part by elevated levels of inflammatory cytokines such as TNF-α. Mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) is a ubiquitous signaling molecule that has been considered to contribute to diverse cellular processes through mTOR complex 1 (mTORC1) or complex 2 (mTORC2). This study aimed to elucidate the role of mTOR signaling in TNF-α -induced VCAM-1 expression by the arterial endothelium. Primary human aortic endothelial cells (HAECs) were treated with low-dose (0.1 ng/ml) TNF-α, and VCAM-1 expression was measured by real-time quantitative PCR, Western blot analysis, and flow cytometry. Inhibition of mTOR through siRNA-mediated depletion or treatment with chemical inhibitors rapamycin or torin 1 suppressed VCAM1 transcription, which translated to inhibition of VCAM-1 surface expression by HAECs and concomitant decreased adhesion of monocytes. A promoter luciferase assay and chromatin immunoprecipitation indicated that mTOR regulated VCAM1 transcription through a mechanism involving transcription factor GATA6. Activation of PKC-α and an increase in miR-200a-3p expression, caused by mTOR inhibition but not disruption of mTORC1 or mTORC2 singly or together, decreased TNF-α - induced GATA6 expression and its enrichment at the VCAM1 promoter. In conclusion, mTOR inhibition activates PKC- α independently of disruption of mTORC1 and/or mTORC2, which challenges the conventional wisdom regarding mTOR signaling. Moreover, mTOR signals through transcriptional and posttranscriptional mechanisms to elicit maximal cytokine-induced endothelial inflammation that precedes atherosclerosis. NEW & NOTEWORTHY Both mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) complex 1 (mTORC1) and mTORC2 contribute to PKC- α activation in the human aortic endothelium. Inhibition of mTOR is not equivalent to disruption of mTORC1 and/or mTORC2 in affecting human aortic endothelial cell signaling. Specifically, inhibition of mTOR causes PKC- α activation and miR-200a-3p upregulation, which independently suppresses TNF-α -induced transcription factor GATA6 expression and subsequently inhibits VCAM-1 expression and monocytic cell adhesion onto the aortic endothelium.
Drosophila Vps4 promotes Epidermal growth factor receptor signaling independently of its role in receptor degradation. Endocytic trafficking of signaling receptors is an important mechanism for limiting signal duration. Components of the Endosomal Sorting Complexes Required for Transport (ESCRT), which target ubiquitylated receptors to intra-lumenal vesicles (ILVs) of multivesicular bodies, are thought to terminate signaling by the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and direct it for lysosomal degradation. In a genetic screen for mutations that affect Drosophila eye development, we identified an allele of Vacuolar protein sorting 4 (Vps4), which encodes an AAA ATPase that interacts with the ESCRT-III complex to drive the final step of ILV formation. Photoreceptors are largely absent from Vps4 mutant clones in the eye disc, and even when cell death is genetically prevented, the mutant R8 photoreceptors that develop fail to recruit surrounding cells to differentiate as R1-R7 photoreceptors. This recruitment requires EGFR signaling, suggesting that loss of Vps4 disrupts the EGFR pathway. In imaginal disc cells mutant for Vps4, EGFR and other receptors accumulate in endosomes and EGFR target genes are not expressed; epistasis experiments place the function of Vps4 at the level of the receptor. Surprisingly, Vps4 is required for EGFR signaling even in the absence of Shibire, the Dynamin that internalizes EGFR from the plasma membrane. In ovarian follicle cells, in contrast, Vps4 does not affect EGFR signaling, although it is still essential for receptor degradation. Taken together, these findings indicate that Vps4 can promote EGFR activity through an endocytosis-independent mechanism.
Dynamic protein associations define two phases of IL-1β transcriptional activation. IL-1β is a key proinflammatory cytokine with roles in multiple diseases. Monocytes package the IL-1β promoter into a "poised architecture" characterized by a histone-free transcription start site and constitutive transcription factor associations. Upon LPS stimulation, multiple proteins inducibly associate with the IL-1β gene. To understand how the complex combination of constitutive and inducible transcription factors activate the IL-1β gene from a poised structure, we measured temporal changes in NF-κB and IFN regulatory factor (IRF) association with IL-1β regulatory elements. Association of the p65 subunit of NF-κB peaks 30-60 min post-monocyte stimulation, and it shortly precedes IRF-4 recruitment to the IL-1β enhancer and maximal mRNA production. In contrast, IRF-8/enhancer association decreases poststimulation. To test the importance of delayed IRF-4/enhancer association, we introduced a mutated PU.1 protein shown to prevent PU.1-mediated IRF-4 recruitment to the enhancer sequence. Mutated PU.1 initially increased IL-1β mRNA followed by decreased mRNA levels 2-3 h poststimulation. Taken together, these data support a dynamic model of IL-1β transcriptional activation in which a combination of IRF-8 and p65 drives the initial phase of IL-1β transcription, while PU.l-mediated IRF-4 recruitment to the enhancer is important for the second phase. We further demonstrate that activation of both NF-κB and IRF-4 depends on CK2 kinase activity. Because IRF-4/enhancer association requires CK2 but not p65 activation, we conclude that CK2 triggers the IRF-4 and p65 pathways independently to serve as a master regulator of IL-1β transcription.
E protein silencing by the leukemogenic AML1-ETO fusion protein. The AML1-ETO fusion protein, generated by the t(8;21) chromosomal translocation, is causally involved in nearly 15% of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cases. This study shows that AML1-ETO, as well as ETO, inhibits transcriptional activation by E proteins through stable interactions that preclude recruitment of p300/CREB-binding protein (CBP) coactivators. These interactions are mediated by a conserved ETO TAF4 homology domain and a 17-amino acid p300/CBP and ETO target motif within AD1 activation domains of E proteins. In t(8;21) leukemic cells, very stable interactions between AML1-ETO and E proteins underlie a t(8;21) translocation-specific silencing of E protein function through an aberrant cofactor exchange mechanism. These studies identify E proteins as AML1-ETO targets whose dysregulation may be important for t(8;21) leukemogenesis, as well as an E protein silencing mechanism that is distinct from that associated with differentiation-inhibitory proteins.
E2F regulates FASCIATA1, a chromatin assembly gene whose loss switches on the endocycle and activates gene expression by changing the epigenetic status. Maintenance of genome integrity depends on histone chaperone-mediated chromatin reorganization. DNA replication-associated nucleosome deposition relies on chromatin assembly factor-1 (CAF-1). Depletion of CAF-1 in human cells leads to cell death, whereas in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), where it is involved in heterochromatin compaction and homologous recombination, plants are viable. The mechanism that makes the lack of CAF-1 activity compatible with development is not known. Here, we show that the FASCIATA1 (FAS1) gene, which encodes the CAF-1 large subunit, is a target of E2F transcription factors. Mutational studies demonstrate that one of the two E2F binding sites in its promoter has an activator role, whereas the other has a repressor function. Loss of FAS1 results in reduced type A cyclin-dependent kinase activity, inhibits mitotic progression, and promotes a precocious and systemic switch to the endocycle program. Selective up-regulation of the expression of a subset of genes, including those involved in activation of the G2 DNA damage checkpoint, also occurs upon FAS1 loss. This activation is not the result of a global change in chromatin structure, but depends on selective epigenetic changes in histone acetylation and methylation within a small region in their promoters. This suggests that correct chromatin assembly during the S-phase is required to prevent unscheduled changes in the epigenetic marks of target genes. Interestingly, activation of the endocycle switch as well as introduction of activating histone marks in the same set of G2 checkpoint genes are detected upon treatment of wild-type plants with DNA-damaging treatments. Our results are consistent with a model in which defects in chromatin assembly during the S-phase and DNA damage signaling share part of a pathway, which ultimately leads to mitotic arrest and triggers the endocycle program. Together, this might be a bypass mechanism that makes development compatible with cell division arrest induced by DNA damage stress.
EARS2 significantly coexpresses with PALB2 in breast and pancreatic cancer. Background: PALB2 (BRCA2 partner and localizer) is a BRCA2-interacting protein that is required for BRCA2 genome caretaker tasks and interacts with BRCA1. Women with PALB2 mutation have a 40% to 60% higher risk of breast cancer, almost equivalent to women who have BRCA mutations. PALB2 mutation may also increase the risk of pancreatic cancer. New guidelines for PALB2 mutation in breast cancer advise pancreatic cancer screening, which includes M.R.I.s of the pancreas as well as endoscopic ultrasonography, for women who have a family history of pancreatic cancer. Using the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and The Human Protein Atlas we examined genes that co-express with PALB2 in breast and pancreatic cancer. Methods: We used cBioPortal for Cancer Genomics to analyze data in TCGA. cBioPortal provides visualization, analysis and download of large-scale cancer genomics data sets. We used the UCSC Xena Browser to additionally analyze gene expression in TCGA. Results: Six genes, EARS2, ARL6IP1, DNAJA3, KNOP1, RPUSD1, and TMEM186, significantly coexpressed with PALB2 in both breast and pancreatic cancer. Glutamyl-tRNA synthetase 2 (EARS2) was the only gene coexpressing with PALB2 in the breast and pancreatic cancer subjects that was significantly related to pancreatic cancer survival. Elevated PALB2 and EARS2 gene expression are both significantly associated with the PAM50 Luminal B subtype and high risk of recurrence, suggesting why these women may need active intervention, such as prophylactic mastectomy. Conclusions: EARS2 expression might be a risk factor for pancreatic cancer in breast cancer patients with PALB2 mutations. By assessing EARS2 expression in breast tumors, the clinician might obtain a second piece of information that, with family history of pancreatic cancer, could inform the decision to perform pancreatic cancer screening.
EMT-associated factors promote invasive properties of uveal melanoma cells. Purpose: Transcription factors regulating the epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) program contribute to carcinogenesis and metastasis in many tumors, including cutaneous melanoma. However, little is known about the role of EMT factors in the growth and metastatic dissemination of uveal melanoma cells. Here, we analyzed the expression and functions of the EMT factors ZEB1, Twist1, and Snail1 in uveal melanoma cell lines and primary tumors. Methods: ZEB1, Twist1, and Snail1 mRNA levels were measured using qPCR in five uveal melanoma cell lines and in 30 primary tumors. Gene expression was used to determine class 1 and class 2 signatures in the primary tumors. Short hairpin RNA was used to downregulate the expressions of the EMT factors; then, growth and transwell invasion assays were performed. Results: ZEB1, Twist1, and Snail1 were expressed in all five uveal melanoma lines, with ZEB1 having the highest protein levels. ZEB1 mRNA was significantly elevated in highly metastatic class 2 primary tumors for which survival data were not available, whereas a high gene expression of Twist1 was associated with a worse prognosis in a separate tumor cohort analyzed by expression profiling. The genetic downregulation of ZEB1 in OCM1, OMM1, and 92.1 resulted in a more than 50% reduction in invasion, but only suppressed growth in OMM1 cells. Suppression of Twist1 in Mel290 and OMM1 reduced growth and invasion by more than 50%. The downregulation of Snail1 in the 92.1 cell line reduced invasion by 50%, but did not interfere with growth. Conclusions: The downregulation of ZEB1, Twist1, and Snail1 reduces the invasive properties of uveal melanoma cells, and the elevated mRNA levels of ZEB1 and Twist1 are associated with a more aggressive clinical phenotype in uveal melanoma samples. Therefore, these factors could represent new therapeutic targets in patients with ocular melanoma.
ERBB2 deficiency alters an E2F-1-dependent adaptive stress response and leads to cardiac dysfunction. The tyrosine kinase receptor ERBB2 is required for normal development of the heart and is a potent oncogene in breast epithelium. Trastuzumab, a monoclonal antibody targeting ERBB2, improves the survival of breast cancer patients, but cardiac dysfunction is a major side effect of the drug. The molecular mechanisms underlying how ERBB2 regulates cardiac function and why trastuzumab is cardiotoxic remain poorly understood. We show here that ERBB2 hypomorphic mice develop cardiac dysfunction that mimics the side effects observed in patients treated with trastuzumab. We demonstrate that this phenotype is related to the critical role played by ERBB2 in cardiac homeostasis and physiological hypertrophy. Importantly, genetic and therapeutic reduction of ERBB2 activity in mice, as well as ablation of ERBB2 signaling by trastuzumab or siRNAs in human cardiomyocytes, led to the identification of an impaired E2F-1-dependent genetic program critical for the cardiac adaptive stress response. These findings demonstrate the existence of a previously unknown mechanistic link between ERBB2 and E2F-1 transcriptional activity in heart physiology and trastuzumab-induced cardiac dysfunction.
ERα and ERβ Homodimers in the Same Cellular Context Regulate Distinct Transcriptomes and Functions. The two estrogen receptors ERα and ERβ are nuclear receptors that bind estrogen (E2) and function as ligand-inducible transcription factors. They are homologues and can form dimers with each other and bind to the same estrogen-response element motifs in the DNA. ERα drives breast cancer growth whereas ERβ has been reported to be anti-proliferative. However, they are rarely expressed in the same cells, and it is not fully investigated to which extent their functions are different because of inherent differences or because of different cellular context. To dissect their similarities and differences, we here generated a novel estrogen-dependent cell model where ERα homodimers can be directly compared to ERβ homodimers within the identical cellular context. By using CRISPR-cas9 to delete ERα in breast cancer MCF7 cells with Tet-Off-inducible ERβ expression, we generated MCF7 cells that express ERβ but not ERα. MCF7 (ERβ only) cells exhibited regulation of estrogen-responsive targets in a ligand-dependent manner. We demonstrated that either ER was required for MCF7 proliferation, but while E2 increased proliferation via ERα, it reduced proliferation through a G2/M arrest via ERβ. The two ERs also impacted migration differently. In absence of ligand, ERβ increased migration, but upon E2 treatment, ERβ reduced migration. E2 via ERα, on the other hand, had no significant impact on migration. RNA sequencing revealed that E2 regulated a transcriptome of around 800 genes via each receptor, but over half were specific for either ERα or ERβ (417 and 503 genes, respectively). Functional gene ontology enrichment analysis reinforced that E2 regulated cell proliferation in opposite directions depending on the ER, and that ERβ specifically impacted extracellular matrix organization. We corroborated that ERβ bound to cis-regulatory chromatin of its unique proposed migration-related direct targets ANXA9 and TFAP2C. In conclusion, we demonstrate that within the same cellular context, the two ERs regulate cell proliferation in the opposite manner, impact migration differently, and each receptor also regulates a distinct set of target genes in response to E2. The developed cell model provides a novel and valuable resource to further complement the mechanistic understanding of the two different ER isoforms.
ETS1 targets RYBP transcription to inhibit tumor cell proliferation. ETS1 (E26 transformation specific-1) is the founding member of ETS transcriptional factor family. It transcriptionally modulates numerous gene expressions, and is involved in cellular differentiation, tissue remodeling, angiogenesis, drug resistance and tumorigenesis. ETS1 is usually regarded as an oncogene. However, its apoptosis-inducing activity was also frequently reported. Here, we identified RYBP (Ring1 and YY1 binding protein), a critical epigenetic regulator and apoptosis enhancer, as a novel transcriptional target of ETS1. Specifically, we found that overexpression of ETS1 up-regulates the promoter activity of RYBP in HEK293T and tumor cells from different tissue origins, indicating a universal transcriptional regulatory effect. Subsequently, both overexpression and RNA interfering experiments demonstrated that ETS1 positively modulates RYBP expression from both mRNA and protein levels. Bioinformatics analysis combined with site-directed mutagenesis suggested that there probably exist a multiple of ETS1 binding sites in RYBP promoter region, and chromatin immunoprecipitation assay validates the physical association between ETS1 protein and RYBP promoter region. Functional studies showed that ectopic expression of ETS1 significantly suppresses tumor cell proliferation. However, this inhibitory effect was partially compromised when RYBP was concomitantly knocked down by its specific short hairpin RNA. Meanwhile, we provide evidence to demonstrate that cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21 is possibly involved in this regulatory loop. Taken together, our current study identified RYBP as a new transcriptional target which is utilized by ETS1 to carry out its tumor cell growth inhibitory effect.
Effect of TCF7L2 on the relationship between lifestyle factors and glycemic parameters: a systematic review. Background: Among candidate genes related to type 2 diabetes (T2DM), one of the strongest genes is Transcription factor 7 like 2 (TCF7L2), regarding the Genome-Wide Association Studies. We aimed to conduct a systematic review of the literature on the modification effect of TCF7L2 on the relation between glycemic parameters and lifestyle factors. Methods: A systematic literature search was done for relevant publications using electronic databases, including PubMed, EMBASE, Scopus, and Web of Science, from January 1, 2000, to November 2, 2021. Results: Thirty-eight studies (16 observational studies, six meal test trials, and 16 randomized controlled trials (RCTs)) were included. Most observational studies had been conducted on participants with non-diabetes showing that TCF7L2 modified the association between diet (fatty acids and fiber) and insulin resistance. In addition, findings from meal test trials showed that, compared to non-risk-allele carriers, consumption of meals with different percentages of total dietary fat in healthy risk-allele carriers increased glucose concentrations and impaired insulin sensitivity. However, ten RCTs, with intervention periods of less than ten weeks and more than one year, showed that TCF7L2 did not modify glycemic parameters in response to a dietary intervention involving different macronutrients. However, two weight loss dietary RCTs with more than 1-year duration showed that serum glucose and insulin levels decreased and insulin resistance improved in non-risk allele subjects with overweight/obesity. Regarding artichoke extract supplementation (ALE), two RCTs observed that ALE supplementation significantly decreased insulin concentration and improved insulin resistance in the TT genotype of the rs7903146 variant of TCF7L2. In addition, four studies suggested that physical activity levels and smoking status modified the association between TCF7L2 and glycemic parameters. However, three studies observed no effect of TCF7L2 on glycemic parameters in participants with different levels of physical activity and smoking status. Conclusion: The modification effects of TCF7L2 on the relation between the lifestyle factors (diet, physical activity, and smoking status) and glycemic parameters were contradictory. PROSPERO registration number: CRD42020196327
Effect of aflatoxin B1 on UDP-glucuronosyltransferase mRNA expression in HepG2 cells. Aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) is a potent mycotoxin that induces hepatocellular carcinoma in many animal species, including humans. In this study, we examined the effects of AFB1 on UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) mRNA expression in HepG2 cells (human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line). The cells were treated with AFB1 for 48. h at a concentration of 10 μM, and their viability (87%) was not significantly different from that of control cells. Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis demonstrated that the mRNAs of four UGT1As (UGT1A1, UGT1A3, UGT1A4 and UGT1A9) and seven UGT2Bs (UGT2B4, UGT2B7, UGT2B10, UGT2B11, UGT2B15, UGT2B17 and UGT2B28) are expressed in HepG2 cells. The mRNAs of aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR), pregnane X receptor (PXR), retinoid X receptor (RXR) and glucocorticoid receptor (GR) as transcriptional regulators were also detected. AFB1 significantly increased mRNA levels of UGT1A3, UGT2B10, UGT2B15 and UGT2B17 in HepG2 cells to 2.5-, 2.0-, 1.9- and 1.5-fold, respectively, whereas the mRNA levels of transcriptional regulators were hardly affected by AFB1. These findings suggest that AFB1 induces UGT2B isoforms rather than UGT1A isoforms in HepG2 cells, and that the change may closely contribute to the toxicity of AFB1.
Effector CD4+ T cell expression signatures and immune-mediated disease associated genes. Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) in immune-mediated diseases have identified over 150 associated genomic loci. Many of these loci play a role in T cell responses, and regulation of T cell differentiation plays a critical role in immune-mediated diseases; however, the relationship between implicated disease loci and T cell differentiation is incompletely understood. To further address this relationship, we examined differential gene expression in naïve human CD4+ T cells, as well as in in vitro differentiated Th1, memory Th17-negative and Th17-enriched CD4+ T cells subsets using microarray and RNASeq. We observed a marked enrichment for increased expression in memory CD4+ compared to naïve CD4+ T cells of genes contained among immune-mediated disease loci. Within memory T cells, expression of disease-associated genes was typically increased in Th17-enriched compared to Th17-negative cells. Utilizing RNASeq and promoter methylation studies, we identified a differential regulation pattern for genes solely expressed in Th17 cells (IL17A and CCL20) compared to genes expressed in both Th17 and Th1 cells (IL23R and IL12RB2), where high levels of promoter methylation are correlated to near zero RNASeq levels for IL17A and CCL20. These findings have implications for human Th17 celI plasticity and for the regulation of Th17-Th1 expression signatures. Importantly, utilizing RNASeq we found an abundant isoform of IL23R terminating before the transmembrane domain that was enriched in Th17 cells. In addition to molecular resolution, we find that RNASeq provides significantly improved power to define differential gene expression and identify alternative gene variants relative to microarray analysis. The comprehensive integration of differential gene expression between cell subsets with disease-association signals, and functional pathways provides insight into disease pathogenesis.
Effects and mechanism of downregulation of COX-2 expression by RNA interference on proliferation and apoptosis of human breast cancer MCF-7 cells. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of RNA interference with prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthase 2 (COX-2) gene on the proliferation and apoptosis of breast cancer MCF-7 cells, as well as the underlying mechanism. The present study constructed the eukaryotic expression vector of the targeted COX-2 gene, transfected the MCF-7 cells and screened the stably expressed clone. Changes in the COX-2 gene expression in breast cancer MCF-7 cells prior to and following transfection were examined; the proliferation and apoptosis of MCF-7 cells were analyzed. Furthermore, changes in the protein levels of survivin, B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2) and Bcl-2-associated X (Bax) genes were detected. RNA interference mediated by a lentiviral expression vector significantly decreased the protein expression levels of the COX-2 gene, and therefore, the proliferation and growth of breast cancer MCF-7 cells was significantly suppressed and the apoptotic rate increased. Of note, the mRNA and protein expression levels of survivin and Bcl-2 decreased, while those of Bax increased following COX-2 silencing. RNA interference markedly deactivated the COX-2 gene, suppressed the proliferation of breast cancer MCF-7 cells, and, to a certain extent, enhanced the induced spontaneous apoptosis, which is regulated by the Bax gene. These results provided evidence for the potential applications of RNA interference of the targeted COX-2 gene in gene therapy for the treatment of breast cancer.
Effects of MicroRNA-592-5p on hippocampal neuron injury following hypoxic-ischemic brain damage in neonatal mice-involvement of PGD2/DP and PTGDR. Background/Aims: This study aimed to explore the effect of microRNA-592-5p (miR-592-5p) on hypoxic-ischemic brain damage (HIBD)-induced hippocampal neuronal injury in a neonatal mouse model relative to the involvement of one target gene, PTGDR, and the PGD2/ DP signaling pathway. Methods: A total of 30 neonatal mice aged 7 days were randomly selected to establish an HIBD mouse model. Hippocampal neuronal cells were transfected into a control group, a blank group, a negative control (NC) group, an miR-592-5p mimics group, an miR-592-5p inhibitors group, an siRNA-PTGDR group and an miR-592-5p inhibitors + siRNA-PTGDR group. Reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and Western blot analyses were performed to detect the expression levels of miR-592-5p, PTGDR, DP2, Bcl-2 and Bax in tissues and cells. Cell proliferation, cell cycle and apoptosis were detected by MTT assay and flow cytometry, respectively. Results: The expression levels of miR-592-5p and Bcl-2 decreased, while the expression levels of PTGDR, DP2 and Bax increased in the HIBD group. PTGDR is a target gene of miR-592-2p. Compared with the NC and blank groups, the expression levels of PTGDR, DP2 and Bax decreased, while the expression levels of miR-592-5p and Bcl-2 increased in the miR-592-5p mimics group. The siRNA-PTGDR group showed the same trend as that observed in the miR-592-5p mimics group, except with no difference in miR-592-5p expression. The miR-592-5p inhibitors group showed an opposite gene expression trend compared to that in the miR-592-5p mimics group. The S phase of the cell cycle was prolonged, the G1 phase was reduced, proliferation was increased, and the apoptosis rate was decreased in the siRNA-PTGDR and miR-592-5p mimics groups. Opposite trends for cell cycle, proliferation and apoptosis were observed in the miR-592-5p inhibitors group. Conclusions: Our study suggests that miR-592-5p upregulation protects against hippocampal neuronal injury caused by HIBD by targeting PTGDR and inhibiting the PGD2/ DP signaling pathway.
Effects of secreted frizzled-related protein 1 on proliferation, migration, invasion, and apoptosis of colorectal cancer cells. Background: Secreted frizzled-related protein 1 (SFRP1) is a member of the SFRPs family that modulates the Wnt signal transduction pathway. Recent studies have showed down-regulation of SFRP1 expression in colorectal cancer (CRC). We aimed to evaluate the effect of SFRP1 on the proliferation, migration, invasion and apoptosis of CRC cells in vitro. Materials and methods: We used real-time fluorescence quantification (RT-PCR) and Western blotting to detect SFRP1 expression in CRC, pericarcinomatous tissues and CRC cell lines. We assessed the influence of overexpression and knockdown of SFRP1 on CRC cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and apoptosis, Western blotting was used to evaluate protein levels of Wnt, β-catenin, and apoptosis-related proteins. Results: The expression of SFRP1 was significantly decreased in CRC tissues. Among the six CRC cell lines (sw-480, sw1116, caco-2, ht-29, colo-205, and hct-116), RT-PCR revealed that sw1116 cells had the lowest expression of SFRP1, while caco-2 cells had the highest SFRP1 expression. SFRP1 overexpression in sw1116 cells significantly suppressed cell proliferation while SFRP1 knockdown in caco-2 cells significantly increase the cell proliferation. In addition, overexpression of SFRP1 in sw1116 cells remarkedly suppressed cell migration and invasion, whereas knockdown of SFRP1 in caco-2 cells resulted in significant enhancement of migration and invasion. Furthermore, SFRP1 overexpression in sw1116 cells promoted cell apoptosis. Western blotting showed that SFRP1 overexpression significantly decreased the protein levels of Wnt, β-catenin and apoptosis-related proteins, including MMP2, MMP9, Twist, CDK1, TGF, and Bcl2. Conclusion: Our results demonstrate that SFRP1 suppresses cell proliferation, migration and invasion, and promotes apoptosis in CRC cells.
Effects of tissue factor pathway inhibitor-2 expression on biological behavior of BeWo and JEG-3 cell lines. Objectives: To investigate the effect of tissue factor pathway inhibitor-2 (TFPI-2) expression on biological behavior of BeWo and JEG-3 cell lines. Material and Methods: The expression of TFPI-2 in BeWo and JEG-3 cells was upregulated by pEGFP-N3-TFPI-2 and downregulated by small interference RNA transfection, confirmed by Western blotting assay and real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Boyden chamber, Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), and Hoechst 33258/terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase-mediated UTP end labeling (TUNEL) assays were used for migration, invasion, and proliferation/apoptosis analysis, respectively. Results: In Western blotting and RT-PCR assay, protein and messenger RNA (mRNA) expression of TFPI-2 in transfected BeWo and JEG-3 cells were confirmed. Expression of TFPI-2 inhibited BeWo and downregulated JEG-3 cell migration, invasion, proliferation, and induced apoptosis (P <.05) in Boyden chamber, CCK-8, Hoechst 33258, and TUNEL detection, respectively. Conclusions: TFPI-2 expression caused invasion and proliferation impair and induced apoptosis in TFPI-2 regulated BeWo and JEG-3 cells. It provides a clue for potential role of TFPI-2 in trophoblast.
Eight-alanine duplication in homeobox D13 in a Chinese family with synpolydactyly. Human synpolydactyly (SPD), belonging to syndactyly (SD) II, is an inherited autosomal-dominant limb malformation characterized by SD of finger 3 or 4 or toe 4 or 5, usually with digit duplication. Previous studies have demonstrated that homeobox protein D13 (. HOXD13) is responsible for this Mendelian disorder. In this paper, we report on a family with SPD - 7 members show typical SPD malformations. We used PCR and Sanger sequencing of DNA from peripheral blood samples and found an 8-Ala expansion in exon 1 of . HOXD13 by mutation detection; this variant was absent in unaffected members and in 50 unaffected non-related subjects. This study further confirmed the correlation between SPD and alanine expansion in . HOXD13.
Elevated JNK activation contributes to the pathogenesis of human brain tumors. The ERK pathway is typically associated with activation of the EGF receptor and has been shown to play a major role in promoting several tumor phenotypes. An analogous signaling module, the JNK pathway, has not been shown to be consistently activated by the EGF receptor but is instead more uniformly stimulated by cellular stresses and cytokines. The function of the JNK pathway in primary tumors is unclear as it has been implicated in both promoting apoptosis and cell growth in vitro, which may be a reflection of the cell lines chosen. Primary human brain tumors frequently show overexpression of the EGF receptor. To clarify the role of JNK in tumorigenesis, we have investigated the role of JNK in a large panel of primary human brain tumors and tumor derived cell lines. Here we present evidence that JNK has a major role in promoting tumorigenesis both in vivo and in vitro. Western blot analysis demonstrated that 86% (18 of 21) of primary brain tumors showed evidence of JNK activation but only 38% (8 of 21) showed evidence of ERK activation. Kinase assays revealed that 77% of brain tumor cell lines activated JNK in response to EGF (7 of 13) or had high levels of basal activity (3 of 13), whereas none of six normal cell lines analysed, including astrocytes, had these properties. Of several growth factors examined, EGF produced the highest level of JNK induction in tumor cell lines and the duration of activation was greater than that seen for ERK. Expression of a dominant-negative (tin) form of JNK potently inhibited EGF mediated anchorage independent growth and protection from cell death in two glial tumor cell lines. These findings demonstrate that enhanced JNK activation is frequently found in primary brain tumors and that this activation contributes to phenotypes related to transformation.
Elevated microRNA-34a in obesity reduces NAD+ levels and SIRT1 activity by directly targeting NAMPT. SIRT1 is an NAD+-dependent deacetylase that is implicated in prevention of many age-related diseases including metabolic disorders. As SIRT1 deacetylase activity is dependent on NAD+ levels and the development of compounds that directly activate SIRT1 has been controversial, indirectly activating SIRT1 through enhancing NAD+ bioavailability has received increasing attention. NAD+ levels are reduced in obesity and the aged, but the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. We recently showed that hepatic microRNA-34a (miR-34a), which is elevated in obesity, directly targets and decreases SIRT1 expression. Here, we further show that miR-34a reduces NAD+ levels and SIRT1 activity by targeting NAMPT, the rate-limiting enzyme for NAD+ biosynthesis. A functional binding site for miR-34a is present in the 3′ UTR of NAMPT mRNA. Hepatic overexpression of miR-34a reduced NAMPT/NAD+ levels, increased acetylation of the SIRT1 target transcriptional regulators, PGC-1α, SREBP-1c, FXR, and NF-κB, and resulted in obesity-mimetic outcomes. The decreased NAMPT/NAD+ levels were independent of miR-34a effects on SIRT1 levels as they were also observed in SIRT1 liver-specific knockout mice. Further, the miR-34a-mediated decreases were reversed by treatment with the NAD+ intermediate, nicotinamide mononucleotide. Conversely, antagonism of miR-34a in diet-induced obese mice restored NAMPT/NAD+ levels and alleviated steatosis, inflammation, and glucose intolerance. Anti-miR-34a-mediated increases in NAD+ levels were attenuated when NAMPT was downregulated. Our findings reveal a novel function of miR-34a in reducing both SIRT1 expression and activity in obesity. The miR-34a/NAMPT axis presents a potential target for treating obesity- and aging-related diseases involving SIRT1 dysfunction like steatosis and type 2 diabetes.
Emerging Roles of Liquid–Liquid Phase Separation in Cancer: From Protein Aggregation to Immune-Associated Signaling. Liquid–liquid Phase Separation (LLPS) of proteins and nucleic acids has emerged as a new paradigm in the study of cellular activities. It drives the formation of liquid-like condensates containing biomolecules in the absence of membrane structures in living cells. In addition, typical membrane-less condensates such as nuclear speckles, stress granules and cell signaling clusters play important roles in various cellular activities, including regulation of transcription, cellular stress response and signal transduction. Previous studies highlighted the biophysical and biochemical principles underlying the formation of these liquid condensates. The studies also showed how these principles determine the molecular properties, LLPS behavior, and composition of liquid condensates. While the basic rules driving LLPS are continuously being uncovered, their function in cellular activities is still unclear, especially within a pathological context. Therefore, the present review summarizes the recent progress made on the existing roles of LLPS in cancer, including cancer-related signaling pathways, transcription regulation and maintenance of genome stability. Additionally, the review briefly introduces the basic rules of LLPS, and cellular signaling that potentially plays a role in cancer, including pathways relevant to immune responses and autophagy.
Endocrine and exocrine pancreas pathologies crosstalk: Insulin regulates the unfolded protein response in pancreatic exocrine acinar cells. Exocrine pancreas insufficiency is common in diabetic mellitus (DM) patients. Cellular stress is a prerequisite in the development of pancreatic pathologies such as acute pancreatitis (AP). The molecular mechanisms underlying exocrine pancreatic ER-stress in DM are largely unknown. We studied the effects of insulin and glucose (related to DM) alone and in combination with cerulein (CER)-induced stress (mimicking AP) on ER-stress unfolded protein response (UPR) in pancreatic acinar cells. Exocrine pancreas cells (AR42J) were exposed to high glucose (Glu, 25 mM) and insulin (Ins, 100 nM) levels with or without CER (10 nM). ER-stress UPR activation was analyzed at the transcript, protein, immunocytochemistry, western blotting, quantitative RT-PCR and XBP1 splicing, including; XBP1, sXBP1, ATF6, cleaved ATF6, IRE1-p, CHOP, Caspase-12 and Bax. Exocrine acinar cells exposed to high Ins or Ins+Glu concentrations (but not Glu alone) exhibited ER-stress UPR, demonstrated by significant increase of transcript and protein levels of downstream markers in the ATF6 and IRE1 transduction arms, including: sXBP1, cleaved ATF6, XBP1, CHOP, IRE1-p and caspase-12. UPR activation resulted in IRE1-p aggregation and nuclear trans-localization of cleaved activated ATF6 and sXBP1. Ins further aggravated UPR when cells were co-challenged with CER-induced stress, exacerbating the effects of CER alone. High Ins levels, typical to type-2-DM, activate the ER-stress UPR in pancreatic acinar cells, through the ATF6 and IRE1 pathways. This effect of Ins in naïve acinar cells further augments CER-induced UPR. Our data highlight molecular pathways through which DM enhances exocrine pancreas pathologies.
Enhancer of zeste homolog 2 depletion induces cellular senescence via histone demethylation along the INK4/ARF locus. Polycomb group proteins are epigenetic transcriptional repressors that function through recognition and modification of histone methylation and chromatin structure. As a member of PcG proteins, enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (EZH2) targets cell cycle regulatory proteins which govern cell cycle progression and cellular senescence. In previous work, we reported that EZH2 depletion functionally induced cellular senescence in human gastric cancer cells with mutant p53. However, whether EZH2 expression contributes to the change of key cell cycle regulators and the mechanism involved are still unclear. To address this issue, we investigated the effects of EZH2 depletion on alteration of histone methylation pattern. In gastric cancer cells, INK4/ARF locus was activated to certain extent in consequence of a decrease of H3K27me3 along it caused by EZH2 silence, which contributed substantially to an increase in the expression of p15INK4b, p14ARF and p16INK4a and resulted in cellular senescence ultimately. Furthermore, MKN28 cells, which did not express p16INK4a and p21cip, could be induced to senescence via p15INK4b activation and suppression of p15INK4b reversed senescence progression induced by EZH2 downregulated. These data unravel a crucial role of EZH2 in the regulation of INK4/ARF expression and senescence procedure in gastric cancer cells, and show that the cellular senescence could just depend on the activation of p15INK4b/Rb pathway, suggesting the cell-type and species specificity involved in the mechanisms of senescence inducement. Crown
Environmental contaminants and microRNA regulation: Transcription factors as regulators of toxicant-altered microRNA expression. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) regulate gene expression by binding mRNA and inhibiting translation and/or inducing degradation of the associated transcripts. Expression levels of miRNAs have been shown to be altered in response to environmental toxicants, thus impacting cellular function and influencing disease risk. Transcription factors (TFs) are known to be altered in response to environmental toxicants and play a critical role in the regulation of miRNA expression. To date, environmentally-responsive TFs that are important for regulating miRNAs remain understudied. In a state-of-the-art analysis, we utilized an in silico bioinformatic approach to characterize potential transcriptional regulators of environmentally-responsive miRNAs. Using the miRStart database, genomic sequences of promoter regions for all available human miRNAs (n = 847) were identified and promoter regions were defined as − 1000/+500 base pairs from the transcription start site. Subsequently, the promoter region sequences of environmentally-responsive miRNAs (n = 128) were analyzed using enrichment analysis to determine overrepresented TF binding sites (TFBS). While most (56/73) TFs differed across environmental contaminants, a set of 17 TFs was enriched for promoter binding among miRNAs responsive to numerous environmental contaminants. Of these, one TF was common to miRNAs altered by the majority of environmental contaminants, namely SWI/SNF-related, matrix-associated, actin-dependent regulator of chromatin, subfamily A, member 3 (SMARCA3). These identified TFs represent candidate common transcriptional regulators of miRNAs perturbed by environmental toxicants.
Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor Stimulation Activates the RNA Binding Protein CUG-BP1 and Increases Expression of C/EBPβ-LIP in Mammary Epithelial Cells. The transcription factor CCAAT/enhancer binding protein β (C/EBPβ) is a key regulator of growth and differentiation in many tissues. C/EBPβ is expressed as several distinct protein isoforms (LAP1, LAP2, and LIP) whose expression is regulated by alternative translational initiation at downstream AUG start sites. The dominant-negative LIP isoform is predominantly expressed during proliferative cellular responses and is associated with aggressive tumors. In this study, we investigated a mechanism by which the LIP isoform is translationally regulated in mammary epithelial cells. We have demonstrated that LIP expression is increased in response to activation of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) signaling pathway and that the increased expression of LIP is regulated in part by an RNA binding protein referred to as CUG repeat binding protein (CUG-BP1). Our data demonstrate that EGFR signaling results in the phosphorylation of CUG-BP1 and this leads to an increase in the binding of CUG-BP1 to C/EBPβ mRNA and elevated expression of the LIP isoform. Phosphorylation is necessary for the binding activity of CUG-BP1 and the consequent increase in LIP expression, as determined by binding assays and a cell free, transcription-coupled translation system. CUG-BP1 is thus a previously unidentified downstream target of EGFR signaling and represents a new translational regulator of LIP expression in human mammary epithelial cells.
Epigenetic Regulation of Dpp6 Expression by Dnmt3b and Its Novel Role in the Inhibition of RA Induced Neuronal Differentiation of P19 Cells. DNA methylation is an important mechanism of gene silencing in mammals catalyzed by a group of DNA methyltransferases including Dnmt1, Dnmt3a, and Dnmt3b which are required for the establishment of genomic methylation patterns during development and differentiation. In this report, we studied the role of DNA methyltransferases during retinoic acid induced neuronal differentiation of P19 cells. We observed an increase in the mRNA and protein level of Dnmt3b, whereas the expression of Dnmt1 and Dnmt3a was decreased after RA treatment of P19 cells which indicated that Dnmt3b is more important during neuronal differentiation of P19 cells. Dnmt3b enriched chromatin library from RA treated P19 cells identified dipeptidyl peptidase 6 (Dpp6) gene as a novel target of Dnmt3b. Further, quantitative ChIP analysis showed that the amount of Dnmt3b recruited on Dpp6 promoter was equal in both RA treated as well as untreated p19 cells. Bisulfite genomic sequencing, COBRA, and methylation specific PCR analysis revealed that Dpp6 promoter was heavily methylated in both RA treated and untreated P19 cells. Dnmt3b was responsible for transcriptional silencing of Dpp6 gene as depletion of Dnmt3b resulted in increased mRNA and protein expression of Dpp6. Consequently, the average methylation of Dpp6 gene promoter was reduced to half in Dnmt3b knockdown cells. In the absence of Dnmt3b, Dnmt3a was associated with Dpp6 gene promoter and regulated its expression and methylation in P19 cells. RA induced neuronal differentiation was inhibited upon ectopic expression of Dpp6 in P19 cells. Taken together, the present study described epigenetic silencing of Dpp6 expression by DNA methylation and established that its ectopic expression can act as negative signal during RA induced neuronal differentiation of P19 cells.
Epigenetic demthylation of sFRPs, with emphasis on sFRP4 activation, leading to Wnt signalling suppression and histone modifications in breast, prostate, and ovary cancer stem cells. The expression and levels of secreted frizzled-related proteins (sFRPs), important Wnt signalling antagonists, have been reported to be reduced in various cancers, and are associated with disease progression and poor prognosis. During tumour development, all sFRP (1, 2, 3, 4, and 5) genes are hypermethylated, causing transcriptional silencing. sFRPs have an ability to sensitize tumour cells to chemotherapeutic drugs, enhancing cell death. Reduced Wnt signalling is associated with loss of cancer stem cell (CSC) viability. We investigated the possible involvement of methylation-mediated silencing of the sFRP gene family in CSCs derived from breast, prostate, and ovarian tumour cell lines. Real-time RT-PCR studies indicated that loss or downregulation of sFRP (1-5) expression in tumours is associated with promoter hypermethylation. Additionally, CSCs derived from all tumour cell lines with sFRP (1-5) promotor hypermethylation expressed sFRP (1-5) mRNA after treatment with 5-Azacytidine (5-Aza), especially sFRP4, implying that DNA methylation is the predominant epigenetic mechanism for sFRP (1-5) silencing. Furthermore, post-translational modification (PTM) in total and histone proteins was observed post 5-Aza and sFRP4 treatment. Protein levels of Wnt downstream signalling components (GSK3β active β-catenin, and phospho β-catenin) and epigenetic factors of histones (acetyl histone H3, and H3K27me3) affecting PTM were analysed. Our findings suggest that downregulation of sFRP4 expression in endocrine-related cancers can be attributed to aberrant promoter hypermethylation in conjugation with histone modification, and indicate the important role of methylation-induced gene silencing of sFRP4 in survival and proliferation of CSCs derived from these cancers.
Epigenetic regulation of glucocorticoid receptor expression in aorta from mice with hyperhomocysteinemia. Hyperhomocysteinemia (HHcy) is a risk factor for vascular disease but its underlying molecular pathology is not understood. Homocysteine is metabolically linked to the epigenetic process of DNA methylation. Tissue-specific changes in DNA methylation have been observed in HHcy but little is known about vascular tissue. The objective of this study was to determine if changes in the epigenetic regulation of glucocorticoid receptor (GR) expression (encoded by Nr3c1) in aorta are associated with HHcy. C57BL/6 mice heterozygous for disruption of the cystathionine-β-synthase gene (Cbs+/-) and controls (Cbs+/+) were fed a control or high methionine/low folate (HH) diet to induce HHcy. Cbs+/- and Cbs+/+ mice fed the HH diet had higher plasma total homocysteine levels (19.9 ± 3.2 and 7.0 ± 0.9 μM, respectively) than Cbs+/+ mice fed the control diet (2.7 ± 0.2 μM), and this was accompanied by lower Nr3c1 mRNA and lower GR protein in aorta. The Nr3c1 gene contains multiple first exons producing heterogeneous RNA transcripts expressed in a tissue-specific manner. We identified expression of two transcripts in aorta. Bisulfite pyrosequencing found increased methylation of the promoter regions for these transcripts at sites corresponding to Sp1 and Nrf1 binding sites. Chromatin immunoprecipitation found lower binding of Nrf1 to the Nr3c1 promoter but higher expression of Nrf1 protein in aorta from mice with HHcy. These findings show methylation-silencing of vascular Nr3c1 expression and suggest a role for epigenetic regulation of gene expression in HHcy.
Epigenetic regulation of interleukin-8, an inflammatory chemokine, in osteoarthritis. Objective: To determine whether altered IL8 methylation status is associated with increased expression of IL8 in human osteoarthritic (OA) chondrocytes. Methods: IL8 expression levels and the percentage CpG methylation in human chondrocytes were quantified by qRT-PCR and pyrosequencing in OA patients and in non-OA osteoporotic controls. The effect of CpG methylation on IL8 promoter activity was determined using a CpG-free vector; co-transfections with expression vectors encoding nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB), AP-1 and C/EBP were subsequently undertaken to analyse for IL8 promoter activity in response to changes in methylation status. Results: IL8 expression in OA patients was 37-fold higher than in osteoporotic controls. Three CpG sites in the IL8 promoter were significantly demethylated in OA patients. Multiple regression analysis revealed that the degree of methylation of the CpG site located at -116-bp was the strongest predictor of IL8 expression. In vitro DNA methylation was noted to decrease IL8 promoter basal activity. Furthermore, NF-κB, AP-1 and C/EBP strongly enhanced IL8 promoter activity whilst DNA methylation inhibited the effects of these three transcription factors. Conclusions: The present study demonstrates the key role of DNA methylation status on the expression of IL8 in human chondrocytes. We demonstrate a quantitative relationship between percentage methylation and gene expression within clinical samples. These studies provide direct evidence linking the activation of IL8, DNA demethylation and the induction of the OA process with important therapeutic implications therein for patients with this debilitating disease.
Epigenetic regulator UHRF1 inactivates REST and growth suppressor gene expression via DNA methylation to promote axon regeneration. Injured peripheral sensory neurons switch to a regenerative state after axon injury, which requires transcriptional and epigenetic changes. However, the roles and mechanisms of gene inactivation after injury are poorly understood. Here, we show that DNA methylation, which generally leads to gene silencing, is required for robust axon regeneration after peripheral nerve lesion. Ubiquitin-like containing PHD ring finger 1 (UHRF1), a critical epigenetic regulator involved in DNA methylation, increases upon axon injury and is required for robust axon regeneration. The increased level of UHRF1 results from a decrease in miR-9. The level of another target of miR-9, the transcriptional regulator RE1 silencing transcription factor (REST), transiently increases after injury and is required for axon regeneration. Mechanistically, UHRF1 interacts with DNA methyltransferases (DNMTs) and H3K9me3 at the promoter region to repress the expression of the tumor suppressor gene phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) and REST. Our study reveals an epigenetic mechanism that silences tumor suppressor genes and restricts REST expression in time after injury to promote axon regeneration.
Epigenetical Targeting of the FOXP3 Gene by S-Adenosylmethionine Diminishes the Suppressive Capacity of Regulatory T Cells Ex Vivo and Alters the Expression Profiles. Regulatory T cells (T reg cells), a subgroup of CD4 + lymphocytes, play a crucial role in serving as an immune suppressor and in maintaining peripheral tolerance. As the accumulation of T reg cells in the tumor microenvironment is significantly associated with a decreased survival time of patients, they are considered as an important therapeutic target in the immunotherapy of human cancers. These cells are either derived from the thymus, which are called (CD4CD25 hi CD127 low) natural T reg cells (nT reg cells), or they are generated from CD4 + CD25-naive T cells by transforming growth factor-beta 1 and interleukin 2 (IL-2) in the periphery, which are called induced T reg cells (iT reg cells). Although iT reg cells are unstable, nT reg cells stably express forkhead box P3 (FOXP3) protein. Moreover, nT reg cells can be classified as memory (CD45RA-) and naive (CD45RA +) T reg cells, and this classification is based on the expression of CD45RA. FOXP3, which is a master regulator transcription factor, is essential for the functions of T reg cells, and it is mainly controlled by epigenetic mechanisms. The cyclooxygenase 2 (COX2)/prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) pathway is also reported to contribute to the regulatory functions of tumor-infiltrating T reg cells. As a new approach, we investigated whether S-Adenosylmethionine (SAM), a substrate of DNA methyltransferase, attenuates the immune-suppressive capacity of the naive subtype of nT reg cells (CD4CD25 hi CD127 lo CD45RA +). Moreover, we examined the effects of PGE2/COX2 pathway blockers on the suppressive capacity of T reg cells. We found that SAM diminished the suppression competency of T reg cells by decreasing the FOXP3 mRNA and protein levels in a dose-dependent manner. SAM increased the DNA methylation of FOXP3 at the first intron site. In addition, SAM decreased the mRNA and protein levels of the IL-10 cytokine, which has suppressive roles in the immune system. Moreover, mRNA levels of interferon gamma (IFNG) were found to be increased. COX2 inhibition and blockage of PGE2 receptors also reduced the protein and mRNA levels of IL-10, but they did not exhibit any significant effect on T reg cells' suppression in the coculture system. Our results show that SAM might be considered and investigated as a promising agent for immunotherapy in the future.
Epigenetics and Noncoding RNA - Principles and Clinical Impact. Genetics studies the inheritance of genetic information encoded by the base pair sequence and its variants. Sequence variants can have severe consequences as seen in genetically inherited diseases (e. g. osteogenesis Imperfecta, hypophosphatasia). On the other hand, epigenetics deals with inherited and dynamically reversible modifications of chromatin without changing the base pair sequence, resulting in a change in phenotype without a change in genotype. These modifications primarily exert their effects by influencing gene expression. Initially, the definition of epigenetics exclusively comprised inherited changes that persist across several generations without changes in the DNA sequence. This definition has been extended to include also dynamic and partially reversible changes that occur more short-term. These gene modulatory effects introduce new levels of complexity and are crucial determinants of cell fate and organismal development. With its length of approximately two meters, human DNA has to be compacted to fit into the nuclei and fulfill its functions. DNA is wrapped around histone octamers into so-called nucleosomes. DNA, histones, and other DNA-associated proteins together form what is called chromatin. DNA packaging is achieved by variable degrees of chromatin condensation depending on cell type and context. Epigenetic transcriptional regulation modifies the affinity and accessibility of cis-regulatory elements (CREs) for transcription factors and the basic transcriptional machinery and governs interaction between CREs. CREs include promoters, enhancers, silencers, and insulators and are potent modulators of gene expression impacting core cell biological processes such as proliferation and differentiation. Chromatin looping and remodeling by differential covalent modifications of DNA (e. g., methylation or hydroxylation) and histone tails (e. g., acetylation or methylation) elicit fundamental changes in CRE accessibility, thus impacting gene expression. Chromatin looping depends on a specialized machinery including cohesins. Chromatin modifications are mediated by specific enzymes like DNA methylases (DNMTs), histone-modifying enzymes, like histone methyl- and acetyltransferases (KMTs, HATs/KATs), and histone demethylases and deacetylases (KDMs, HDACs). It becomes increasingly evident that epigenetic (dys)regulation plays a decisive role in physiology and pathophysiology, impacting many age-related diseases like cancer and degenerative pathologies (e. g., osteoporosis, Alzheimer's, or Parkinson's) in a significant fashion. Recently, small-molecule inhibitors of chromatin-modifying enzymes (e. g., vorinostat) have been identified and successfully introduced in therapy. Significant progress in high-throughput sequencing technologies and big data analysis has broadened our understanding of noncoding (nc) RNAs and DNA sequence regions in (post-)transcriptional regulation and disease development. Among ncRNAs that play vital roles in gene expression are micro- (miRs) and long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs; e. g., XIST or HOTAIR). By interacting with the coding genome, these RNAs modulate important genetic programs. Interfering RNAs can, for example, enhance the post-transcriptional degradation of transcripts, altering their translation, or assist in the recruitment of chromatin-modifying enzymes to regulate transcription. They can also be packaged into extracellular vesicles as cargo and thus deliver critical information to the microenvironment or even systemically to distant tissues. Therefore, ncRNAs represent a novel playground for therapeutical investigations and supplement epigenetic mechanisms of gene regulation while being subject to epigenetic regulation themselves. Last but not least, dysregulated ncRNAs can also propagate disease. Until recently, the detection of epigenetic phenomena necessitated invasive diagnostic interventions. However, with the arrival of so-called liquid biopsies an analysis of circulating cell-free DNA fragments (cfDNA) and RNAs as well as vesicle-packed RNAs through minimal invasively drawn blood samples can be obtained. Such fragmentomics and RNAomics approaches on peripheral blood will ultimately serve as diagnostic tools for personalized clinical interventions.
Epigenetics of human myometrium: DNA methylation of genes encoding contraction-associated proteins in term and preterm labor. Preterm birth involves the interaction of societal and environmental factors potentially modulating the length of gestation via the epigenome. An established form of epigenetic regulation is DNA methylation where promoter hypermethylation is associated with gene repression. We hypothesized we would find differences in DNA methylation in the myometrium of women with preterm labor of different phenotypes versus normal term labor. Myometrial tissue was obtained at cesarean section at term with or without labor, preterm without labor, idiopathic preterm labor, and twin gestations with labor. Genomic DNA was isolated, and samples in each group were combined and analyzed on a NimbleGen 2.1M human DNA methylation array. Differences in methylation from -8 to +3 kb of transcription start sites of 22 contraction-associated genes were determined. Cytosine methylation was not present in CpG islands of any gene but was present outside of CpG islands in shores and shelves in 19 genes. No differential methylation was found across the tissue groups for six genes (PTGES3L, PTGER2, PTGER4, PTGFRN, ESR2, and GJA1). For 13 genes, differential methylation occurred in several patterns between tissue groups. We find a correlation between hypomethylation and increased mRNA expression of PTGES/mPGES-1, indicating potential functional relevance of methylation, but no such correlation for PTGS2/COX-2, suggesting other regulatory mechanisms for PTGS2 at labor. The majority of differential DNA methylation of myometrial contraction-associated genes with different labor phenotypes occurs outside of CpG islands in gene promoters, suggesting that the entirety of DNA methylation across the genome should be considered.
Establishment and inheritance of epigenetic transcriptional memory. For certain inducible genes, the rate and molecular mechanism of transcriptional activation depends on the prior experiences of the cell. This phenomenon, called epigenetic transcriptional memory, accelerates reactivation and requires both changes in chromatin structure and recruitment of poised RNA Polymerase II (RNAPII) to the promoter. Forms of epigenetic transcriptional memory have been identified in S. cerevisiae, D. melanogaster, C. elegans, and mammals. A well-characterized model of memory is found in budding yeast where memory of inositol starvation involves a positive feedback loop between gene-and condition-specific transcription factors, which mediate an interaction with the nuclear pore complex and a characteristic histone modification: histone H3 lysine 4 dimethylation (H3K4me2). This histone modification permits recruitment of a memory-specific pre-initiation complex, poising RNAPII at the promoter. During memory, H3K4me2 is essential for recruitment of RNAPII and faster reactivation, but RNAPII is not required for H3K4me2. Unlike the RNAPII-dependent H3K4me2 associated with active transcription, RNAPII-independent H3K4me2 requires Nup100, SET3C, the Leo1 subunit of the Paf1 complex and can be inherited through multiple cell cycles upon disrupting the interaction with the Nuclear Pore Complex. The H3K4 methyltransferase (COMPASS) physically interacts with the potential reader (SET3C), suggesting a molecular mechanism for the spreading and re-incorporation of H3K4me2 following DNA replication. Thus, epigenetic transcriptional memory is a conserved adaptation that utilizes a heritable chromatin state, allowing cells and organisms to alter their gene expression programs in response to recent experiences over intermediate time scales.
Establishment of two-dimensional gel electrophoresis profiles of proteome from CD34(+) hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells. OBJECTIVE: To investigate the differential expression of proteins in bone marrow (BM) and mobilized peripheral blood (MPB) CD34+ cells. METHODS: Immunomagnetic beads were used to separate and purify CD34+ cells from the BM and the MPB mononuclear cells (MNCs) mobilized by granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) of normal subjects. The whole cell proteins in CD34+ cells were extracted by freeze-thaw lysis, and applied for two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE), the results analyzed with image analysis software. RESULTS: The average purity of CD34+ cells was 92.33%+/-2.65% in output, with an average cell number of (1.12+/-0.42) x 10(6). 2-DE techniques were optimized, which yielded satisfactory 2-DE profiles of the proteome, showing the different expressions of the proteins between different CD34+ cells. CONCLUSIONS: Immunomagnetic beads in combination with 2-DE is applicable for research of hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells proteome. There are differences in the protein expressions between BM- and MPB-derived CD34+ cells.
Estrogen induces androgen-repressed SOX4 expression to promote progression of prostate cancer cells. BACKGROUND The sex determing region Y-box 4 (SOX4) gene is a critical developmental transcriptional factor that is overexpressed in prostate cancer (PCa). While we and others have investigated the role of SOX4 overexpression in PCa, the molecular mechanism underlying its aberrant expression remains unclear. METHODS Immunohistochemistry were utilized to detect SOX4 expression and the correlation between estrogen receptor β (ERβ), androgen receptor (AR) and SOX4 in a cohort of 94 clinical specimens. Real-time quantitative PCR and Western blotting were used to study the transcript and protein expression levels. Immunofluorescence staining and co-immunoprecipitation were performed to assess the interaction and subcellular location of ERβ and AR. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assays and Luciferase reporter assays were performed to explore the binding and transcriptional activities of ERβ and AR to the SOX4 promoter. Cellular function was evaluated by MTS, invasion and wound healing assays. RESULTS SOX4 expression is up-regulated in Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer (CRPC) tumors compared to hormone-dependent PCa (HDPC) cases. Increased expression was also observed in PCa cells after long-term androgen-deprivation treatment (ADT). In vitro data indicated that SOX4 is an AR transcriptional target and down-regulated by dihydrotestosterone (DHT) via AR. 17β-estradiol (E2) up-regulates SOX4 expression in the absence of androgen through the formation of a protein complex between ERβ and AR. Knockdown of AR or ERβ blocks the E2-induced SOX4 expression. ChIP assays confirmed that both ERβ and AR bind to the SOX4 promoter in response to E2. Functionally, silencing SOX4 significantly attenuates the proliferative effect, as well as the capacity of migration and invasion of E2 on PCa cells. Clinically, overexpression of SOX4 is significantly associated with ERβ expression in PCa. In addition, this association is still retained in CRPC patients with poor prognosis. CONCLUSION These findings suggest that SOX4 is a novel DHT-repressed AR-target gene. E2 could promote proliferation of PCa cells through the up-regulation of SOX4 under androgen-depleted environment. Our data provides a possible molecular basis for the overexpression of SOX4 in CRPC and may facilitate the detection and prevention of the emergence of CRPC.
Evaluation of candidate genes in a Chinese cohort of atypical Rolandic epilepsy. Objective. We aimed to identify new candidate pathogenic genes for atypical Rolandic epilepsy. Methods. We retrospectively evaluated the data from 24 Chinese patients with atypical Rolandic epilepsy who underwent whole-exome sequencing. Data were analysed regarding the frequency of affected genes, previously reported disease-related genes, and evaluation based on Kyoto Encyclopaedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG). Results. We identified a frameshift mutation in the reported gene PRRT2, which is classified as pathogenic according to American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics guidelines (ACMG). We also identified a novel missense mutation in the PRRT2 gene in a family with three affected patients. Several other candidate genes were found in at least two patients, some of which were associated with other epilepsies (ADGRV1, CACNA1A, CHD2, CLCN2, HECW2, KIF1A, NPRL3, RELN and TSC2), while others were mainly associated with neuropsychiatric disease (SHANK3 and AUTS2). The KEGG analysis of 81 candidate genes associated with atypical Rolandic epilepsy identified a significant association with the GABAergic synapse. Candidate genes involved in the GABAergic synapse pathway included NSF, CACNA1A, as well as others. Significance. Our study indicates that PRRT2 mutations may be associated with atypical Rolandic epilepsy. Moreover, we identified a number of unreported candidate genes, including ADGRV1, CHD2, CACNA1A, NSF, NPRL3, KIF1A, GJB2 and HECW2, also associated with atypical Rolandic epilepsy.
Evidence for a protective role of metallothionein-1 in focal cerebral ischemia. Metallothioneins (MTs) are a family of metal binding proteins that have been proposed to participate in a cellular defense against zinc toxicity and free radicals. In the present study, we investigated whether increased expression of MT in MT-1 isoform-overexpressing transgenic mice (MT-TG) affords protection against mild focal cerebral ischemia and reperfusion. Transient focal ischemia was induced in control (wild type) and MT-TG mice by occluding the right middle cerebral artery for 45 min. Upon reperfusion, cerebral edema slowly developed and peaked at 24 hr as shown by T2-weighted MRI. The volume of affected tissue was on the average 42% smaller in MT-TG mice compared with control mice at 6, 9, 24, and 72 hr and 14 days postreperfusion (P < 0.01). In addition, functional studies showed that 3 weeks after reperfusion MT-TG mice showed a significantly better motor performance compared with control mice (P = 0.011). Although cortical baseline levels of MT-1 mRNA were similar in control and MT-TG mice, there was an increase in MT-1 mRNA levels in the ischemic cortex of MT-TG mice to 7.5 times baseline levels compared with an increase to 2.3 times baseline levels in control mice 24 hr after reperfusion. In addition, MT-TG mice showed an increased MT immunoreactivity in astrocytes, vascular endothelial cells, and neurons 24 hr after reperfusion whereas in control mice MT immunoreactivity was restricted mainly to astrocytes and decreased in the infarcted tissue. These results provide evidence that increased expression of MT-1 protects against focal cerebral ischemia and reperfusion.
Evidence for a relief of repression mechanism for activation of the human telomerase reverse transcriptase promoter. The transcriptional activation of human telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT) is an important step during cellular immortalization and tumorigenesis. To study how this activation occurs during immortalization, we have established a set of genetically related pre-crisis cells and their immortal progeny. As expected, hTERT mRNA was detected in our telomerase-positive immortal cells but not in pre-crisis cells or telomerase-negative immortal cells. However, transiently transfected luciferase reporters controlled by hTERT promoter sequences exhibited similar levels of luciferase activity in both telomerase-positive and -negative cells, suggesting that the endogenous chromatin context is likely required for hTERT regulation. Analysis of chromatin susceptibility to DNase I digestion consistently identified a DNase I hypersensitivity site (DHS) near the hTERT transcription initiation site in telomerase-positive cells. In addition, the histone deacetylase inhibitor trichostatin A (TSA) induced hTERT transcription and also a general increase in chromatin sensitivity to DNase treatment in telomerase-negative cells. The TSA-induced hTERT transcription in pre-crisis cells was accompanied by the formation of a DHS at the hTERT promoter. Furthermore, the TSA-induced hTERT transcription and chromatin alterations were not blocked by cycloheximide, suggesting that this induction does not require de novo protein synthesis and that TSA induces hTERT expression through the inhibition of histone deacetylation at the hTERT promoter. Taken together, our results suggest that the endogenous chromatin environment plays a critical role in the regulation of hTERT expression during cellular immortalization.
Exome-wide analysis of rare coding variation identifies novel associations with COPD and airflow limitation in MOCS3, IFIT3 and SERPINA12. Background Several regions of the genome have shown to be associated with COPD in genome-wide association studies of common variants. Objective To determine rare and potentially functional single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with the risk of COPD and severity of airflow limitation. Methods 3226 current or former smokers of European ancestry with lung function measures indicative of Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) 2 COPD or worse were genotyped using an exome array. An analysis of risk of COPD was carried out using ever smoking controls (n=4784). Associations with % predicted FEV1 were tested in cases. We followed-up signals of interest (p<10-5) in independent samples from a subset of the UK Biobank population and also undertook a more powerful discovery study by metaanalysing the exome array data and UK Biobank data for variants represented on both arrays. Results Among the associated variants were two in regions previously unreported for COPD; a low frequency non-synonymous SNP in MOCS3 (rs7269297, pdiscovery =3.08×10-6, preplication =0.019) and a rare SNP in IFIT3, which emerged in the meta-analysis (rs140549288, pmeta =8.56×10-6). In the meta-analysis of % predicted FEV1 in cases, the strongest association was shown for a splice variant in a previously unreported region, SERPINA12 (rs140198372, pmeta =5.72×10-6). We also confirmed previously reported associations with COPD risk at MMP12, HHIP, GPR126 and CHRNA5. No associations in novel regions reached a stringent exome-wide significance threshold (p<3.7×10-7). Conclusions This study identified several associations with the risk of COPD and severity of airflow limitation, including novel regions MOCS3, IFIT3 and SERPINA12, which warrant further study.
Exon sequencing and high resolution haplotype analysis of ABC transporter genes implicated in drug resistance. BACKGROUND: The ATP-binding cassette (ABC) proteins are a superfamily of efflux pumps implicated as a mechanism for multidrug resistance in cytotoxic chemotherapy, immunosuppressive therapy, HIV and epilepsy. Genetic variation in P-glycoprotein, the product of the ABCB1 gene, is proposed to mediate de novo drug resistance, but associations between polymorphisms in ABCB1 and pharmacoresistance have produced conflicting results. Potential explanations for the inconsistency of results include inadequate characterization of gene structure, variation and linkage disequilibrium (LD) in ABCB1, as well as overlap in substrate specificity between ABCB1 and the various other drug transporters. METHODS AND RESULTS: We undertook a fundamental analysis of gene structure, variation and LD in ABCB1 and four other drug transporter genes implicated in pharmacoresistance: ABCC1, ABCC2, ABCC5 and ABCB4. Manual annotation of the five genes revealed nine shorter alternative transcripts with new untranslated regions and one novel region of coding sequence, demonstrating that on-line annotations are incomplete. Sequencing of exons in 47 Caucasian individuals identified 75 novel single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) previously undescribed in any public database, including 14 new coding sequence SNPs. Genotyping of 502 SNPs in 842 Caucasian individuals across the five genes revealed large blocks of high LD, and low haplotype diversity across all five genes that could be characterized by between 67 and 114 tagging SNPs, depending on the tagging criteria. CONCLUSION: The study illustrates that publicly available data resources on genomic organization of genes and common variation can have important gaps and limitations, and establishes a comprehensive set of tagging SNPs for future association studies in pharmacoresistance.
Expression and characterization of recombinant subunits of human complement component C8: Further analysis of the function of C8α and C8γ. Human C8 is composed of three nonidentical subunits (C8α, C8β, and C8γ) that are encoded in separate genes. In C8 isolated from serum, these are arranged as a disulfide-linked C8α-γ dimer that is noncovalently associated with C8β. In this study, a recombinant form of C8α-γ was expressed independently of C8β in insect cells and COS-7 cells and was shown to be equivalent to serum-derived C8α-γ with respect to its ability to combine with C8β and form functional C8. Also expressed separately were mutant (mut) forms of C8α and C8γ in which the single interchain disulfide bond was eliminated. MutC8α exhibited the ability to combine with C8β and express hemolytic activity, although at a lower level than human C8. Addition of purified mutC8γ increased this activity, presumably by binding to mutC8α. A possible role for C8γ as a retinol binding protein was also investigated. Absorbance spectroscopy and fluorescence emission and quenching revealed no specific binding of retinol to mutC8γ. Together, these results indicate that 1) the biosynthesis and secretion of C8α-γ is not dependent on C8β, which is consistent with in vivo observations in C8β-deficient humans; 2) C8α can be synthesized independently of C8γ; therefore, protection of C8α from premature membrane interactions during biosynthetic processing is not a likely function of C8γ; 3) C8γ enhances but is not required for expression of C8 activity; and 4) C8γ does not bind retinol; therefore, it cannot function as a retinol transport protein.
Expression and methylation status of different transcripts of RASSF5 in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. Objective: To investigate the expressions and methylation status of different transcripts of Ras-association domain family 5 (RASSF5) in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC). Methods: The expressions of different transcript mRNAs of RASSF5 in 49 ESCC tissues and the corresponding paracancerous normal tissues and the expression of RASSF5A mRNA in esophageal cancer TE1, TE13, T.Tn and Ec109 cells treated or untreated with 5-aza-2′-deoxycitydine (5-aza-dC) were detected by RT-PCR. The methylation status of RASSF5A in 49 ESCC tissues and the corresponding paracancerous normal tissues and the esophageal cancer cells treated or untreated with 5-aza-dC were detected by methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction (MSP) method. The expression of RASSF5A protein in 49 ESCC tissues and the corresponding paracancerous normal tissues was examined by immunohistochemistry method. Results: RASSF5A was the main transcript that expressed in esophageal squamous epithelium. The expression levels of RASSF5A in TE1, TE13, T.Tn and Ec109 cells after treatment with 5-aza-dC were up-regulated (P < 0.05). The methylation level of RASSF5A was decreased and the unmethylation level of RASSF5A was increased in TE1 cell, while the unmethylation status of RASSF5A gene was observed in TE13, T.Tn and Ec109 cells. The expression level of RASSF5A mRNA in ESCC tissues was lower than that in the corresponding paracancerous normal tissues (P < 0.01). The positive expression rate of RASSF5A protein in ESCC tissues (26.5%, 13/49) was significantly lower than that in the corresponding paracancerous normal tissues (75.5%, 37/49) (P < 0.01). The methylation rate of RASSF5A promoter in ESCC tissues (55.1%, 27/49) was significantly higher than that in the corresponding paracancerous normal tissues (28.6%, 14/49) (P < 0.05), and the methylation rate was closely correlated with lymph node metastasis and pathological differentiation (P < 0.01). Conclusion: The main transcript of RASSF5 which is expressed in esophageal squamous epithelium may be RASSF5A. The inactivation of RASSF5A caused by aberrant methylation in its promoter region may be closely related to the occurrence, metastasis and progression of ESCC.
Expression of CtBP family protein isoforms in breast cancer and their role in chemoresistance. Background information. CtBPs [C-terminal (of E1A) binding protein] have roles in the nucleus as transcriptional co-repressors, and in the cytoplasm in the maintenance of vesicular membranes. CtBPs are expressed from two genes, CTBP1 and CTBP2, mRNA products of which are alternatively spliced at their 5′-ends to generate distinct protein isoforms. Extensive molecular and cellular analyses have identified CtBPs as regulators of pathways critical for tumour initiation, progression and response to therapy. However, little is known of the expression or regulation of CtBP isoforms in human cancer, nor of the relative contributions of CTBP1 and CTBP2 to the tumour cell phenotype. Results. Expression of CtBP proteins and CTBP1 and CTBP2 mRNA splice forms in breast cancer cell lines and tumour tissue was examined. CtBP1 proteins are identifiable as a single band on Western blots and are ubiquitously detectable in breast tumour samples, by both Western blotting and immunohistochemistry. CtBP1 is present in six of six breast cancer cell lines, although it is barely detectable in SKBr3 cells due to reduced CTBP1 mRNA expression. In the cell lines, the predominant CTBP1 mRNA splice form encodes CtBP1-S protein; in tumours, both major CTBP1 mRNA splice forms are variably expressed. CtBP2 proteins are ubiquitously expressed in all lines and tumour samples. The predominant CTBP2 mRNA encodes CtBP2-L, although an alternatively spliced form that encodes CtBP2-S, previously unidentified in humans, is expressed at low abundance. Both CtBP2-L and CtBP2-S are readily detectable as two distinct bands on Western blots; here we show that the CTBP2-L mRNA is translated from two AUG codons to generate both CtBP2-L and CtBP2-S. We have also identified an autoregulatory feedback mechanism whereby CtBP protein abundance is maintained in proliferating breast cancer cells through the post-transcriptional regulation of CtBP2. This feedback is disrupted by UV-C radiation or exposure to cisplatin. Finally, we demonstrate that CtBP1 and CtBP2 both have p53-dependent and -independent roles in suppressing the sensitivity of breast cancer cells to mechanistically diverse cancer chemotherapeutic agents. Conclusions. These studies support recent evidence that CtBP family proteins represent potential targets for therapeutic strategies for the treatment of cancer in general, and breast cancer in particular.
Expression of phosphatase of regenerating liver 1 and 3 mRNA in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. Context. - Phosphatase of regenerating liver (PRL) 3 messenger RNA (mRNA) was reported to express in human colorectal, gastric, ovarian, breast, and hepatic cancers. Objective. - To examine the expression of PRL-1 and PRL-3 mRNAs in human esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC). Design. - Expression of PRL-1 and PRL-3 mRNA was examined with reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction in fresh tissue collected from 40 cases of ESCC with matched lymph node metastasis in 21 cases. The association of expression of PRL-1 and PRL-3 mRNAs with clinicopathologic parameters was analyzed. Results. - The frequencies of PRL-1 and PRL-3 mRNA expression were significantly higher in ESCC than in normal esophageal tissue (P = .001; P = .01) and also significantly higher in ESCC with lymph node metastasis than in those without lymph node metastasis (P = .01; P = .03). The levels of PRL-1 and PRL-3 mRNA expression were significantly higher in ESCC with lymph node metastasis than in those without lymph node metastasis (P = .04; P = .04). The frequencies and levels of PRL-1 and PRL-3 mRNA expression were correlated with the later stages but not with tumor differentiation, tumor location in the esophagus, patient's sex, and age. Conclusions. - PRL-1 and PRL-3 mRNAs may be involved in and used to predict the metastasis of ESCC. The possibility of using PRL-1 and PRL-3 as the therapeutical target is also discussed.
Expression of the TIGR gene in the iris, ciliary body, and trabecular meshwork of the human eye. Mutations in the the glaucoma gene GCL1A, also known as trabecular meshwork glucocorticoid response (TIGR) or myocilin (Myoc), have been shown to be associated with juvenile-onset primary open-angle glaucoma. Very little is known about the pattern of expression of the TIGR gene in human ocular tissues. In-situ hybridization experiments demonstrated the localization of TIGR mRNA in cells throughout the iris, ciliary muscle, and the filtering portion of the trabecular meshwork of normal eye donors. The expression of TIGR protein was investigated by Western blot using an epitope-directed antibody to the carboxy terminus region of TIGR. This antibody was able to distinguish a recombinant TIGR fusion protein from a truncated TIGR form containing the naturally occurring Gln368→stop mutation. In tissue extracts from the iris, ciliary body, and trabecular meshwork, the antibody recognized a major protein band of 57-kDa molecular mass. Deglycosylation treatment with PNGase F, NANase II, and Oglycosidase indicated that the 57-kDa protein in these tissues was unglycosylated. In agreement with this observation, in coupled in-vitro transcription/translation systems, the 57-kDa TIGR protein was unaffected by the presence of the processing and glycosylation activities of canine pancreatic microsomal membranes. These findings support the view that the expression of TIGR mRNA in cells of the iris, ciliary body, and trabecular meshwork correlates with that of TIGR protein, and that the 57-kDa TIGR protein was unglycosylated. These results, which are in contrast with earlier reports, raise the possibility that the TIGR protein might be processed into distinct forms in a tissue-specific manner.
Expression of the bHLH gene NSCL-1 suggests a role in regulating cerebellar granule cell growth and differentiation. We report that the neuronal-specific basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) gene NSCL-1 is expressed at multiple and distinct stages of cerebellar granule cell differentiation. During embryonic development, NSCI-1 expression is initially evenly distributed in the cerebellar primordium and then becomes restricted to the ventricular zone. At the early steps of granule cell development, NSCL-1 is not expressed in rhombic lip cells, but instead in migrating granule cell precursors. Its expression culminates during postnatal proliferation of the external germinal layer, and remains only transiently in the newly formed internal granular layer, and at a much lower level. Thus, NSCL-1 expression is linked to the onset of granule cell differentiation, but is not involved in the maintenance of the differentiated state. These findings suggest that NSCL-1 does not behave as a specification factor, but rather as a factor promoting expansion of progenitor external germinal layer (EGL) cells. Gel mobility shift assays show that NSCL-1 only binds DNA as a heterodimeric complex with the ME1a E-protein. We also provide the first evidence that NSCL-1 functions as a transcriptional activator when heterodimerized with the ME1a E-protein. Taken together, these results suggest that NSCL-1 participates in the regulatory network controlling gene expression during cerebellar granule cell differentiation.
Expression of the diabetes-associated gene TCF7L2 in adult mouse brain. Polymorphisms of the gene TCF7L2 (transcription factor 7-like 2) are strongly associated with the development and progression of type 2 diabetes. TCF7L2 is important in the development of peripheral organs such as adipocytes, pancreas, and the intestine. However, very little is known about its expression elsewhere. In this study we used in situ hybridization histochemistry to show that TCF7L2 has a unique expression pattern in the mouse brain. TCF7L2 is expressed in two distinct populations. First, it is highly expressed in thalamic and tectal structures. Additionally, TCF7L2 mRNA is expressed at moderate to low levels in specific cells of the hypothalamus, preoptic nucleus, and circumventricular organs. Collectively, these patterns of expression suggest that TCF7L2 has distinct functions within the brain, with a general role in the development and maintenance of thalamic and midbrain neurons, and then a distinct role in autonomic homeostasis.
Expression of the dibasic proprotein processing enzyme furin is directed by multiple promoters. The prototype mammalian proprotein processing enzyme furin is shown to be encoded by three distinct FUR mRNA isoforms which differ only in their 5'- untranslated regions. By primer extension analysis, the transcription start sites of the three mRNA isoforms were defined. The genomic regions located immediately upstream of the three alternative transcriptional start sites were shown to possess promoter activity in transfection experiments using the luciferase encoding gene as reporter. In a liver cell line, the P1 promoter appeared to be the strongest; in a lung cell line, the P1A promoter. Human FUR promoter P1 but not P1A or P1B was transactivated by transcription factor C/EBPβ. Other members of this family of bZIP transcription factors, C/EBPα and C/EBPδ, were not able to transactivate the P1 promoter. Promoter P1A and P1B have characteristics of promoters of housekeeping genes. They lack TATA or CAAT boxes upstream of the transcription start site but are very GC-rich and contain several SP1 sites. Promoter P1, on the other hand, has a TATA box in the proximal promoter region. In electromobility shift assays and DNase I footprinting analysis, transcription factor SP1 was found to bind to the proximal region of the P1 promoter. Altogether, our results indicate that expression of the human FUR gene is directed by alternative promoters, housekeeping (GC-rich) as well as regulated (TATA-containing) promoters, suggesting that their differential use may be a mechanism to modulate levels of the furin enzyme.
Expression of the mouse Macf2 gene during inner ear development. Plakins, a family of linker proteins that connect cytoskeletal elements to cellular junctions and the extracellular matrix, are primarily responsible for the mechanical properties of cells and tissues. They include desmoplakin, envoplakin, plectin, dystonin/BPAG1, and Kakapo. Mutations in plakins cause several skin, muscular and neurological disorders. Macrophins are a recently discovered subfamily of plakins with binding domains for actin, intermediate filaments and microtubules. Characteristic features of macrophins include variable actin binding domains, a central rod domain containing both plectin and spectrin repeats, and a C-terminus containing EF hands and GAS2/GAR22 domain. We have examined expression of mouse Macf2, encoding macrophin-2, in adult tissues and in the developing, neonatal, and mature inner ear by in situ hybridization. Northern blot analysis identified three large tissue-specific Macf2 transcripts: a 16-kb mRNA in skeletal muscle and heart, a 15-kb mRNA in brain, and a 9-kb mRNA in RNA from ovary plus uterus. In situ hybridization of the developing mouse inner ear indicated that Macf2 is expressed in the otocyst at day 12.5, in the sensory epithelium by embryonic day 16.5, and in both inner and outer hair cells by day 16.5. Macf2 is expressed in the bodies of both sensory and motor neurons in the central and peripheral nervous system, including the auditory pathway. The Macf2 protein could be involved in the regulation of cytoskeletal connections to cellular junctions and play an important structural role in organs, such as the inner ear, that are subjected to strong mechanical forces.
FAPα, a surface peptidase expressed during wound healing, is a tumor suppressor. Fibroblast activation protein-α (FAP) is a cell surface serine protease expressed at sites of tissue remodeling in embryonic development. FAP is not expressed by mature somatic tissues except activated melanocytes and fibroblasts in wound healing or tumor stroma. FAP expression is specifically silenced in proliferating melanocytic cells during malignant transformation. To study the role of FAP as a tumor suppressor, the gene for mouse fap was cloned and mutated at the catalytic domain (FAP serine mutant, FSM). We found that expression of FAP or FSM at physiologic levels in mouse melanoma cells abrogated tumorigenicity. Remarkably, the mutant form FSM lacking specific serine protease activity was a more potent tumor suppressor. Tumor rejection was not due to adaptive immune responses because RAG1-/- mice challenged with melanoma cells expressing either FAP or FSM were not tumorigenic. In in vitro assays, FAP or FSM expression restored contact inhibition, led to cell cycle arrest at G0/G1 phase, and increased susceptibility to stress-induced apoptosis. Cell death in FAP+ or FSM + melanoma cells was readily triggered by depletion of survival factors from the media, leading to subsequent activation of caspases via the intrinsic pathway. These results show that expression of FAP is a tumor suppressor that abrogates tumorigenicity through regulation of cell growth and survival.
FGF9 modulates Schwann cell myelination in developing nerves and induces a pro-inflammatory environment during injury. Myelin sheath is critical for the proper functioning of the peripheral nervous system (PNS), which allows the effective conduction of nerve impulses. Fibroblast growth factor 9 (FGF9) is an autocrine and paracrine protein in the fibroblast growth factor family that regulates cell differentiation and proliferation. Fgf9 Schwann cell (SC) conditional knockout mice were developed to detect the role of FGF9 in the PNS. In our study, the absence of Fgf9 led to delayed myelination in early development. The expression of mature SC-related genes decreased, and the expression of genes associated with immature SCs increased in the Fgf9 knockout mice. These data were consistent with the morphology and praxeology we observed during the development of the peripheral nerves. Extracellular-regulated kinases 1/2 (ERK1/2) are key signals for myelination, and our results showed that Fgf9 ablation led to the inactivation of ERK1/2. Further research was performed to detect the role of FGF9 in peripheral nerve injury. In superoxide dismutase 1-G93A mice with Fgf9 SC knockout, we found that Fgf9 ablation inhibited the expressions of Cd68, Il-1β, and Cd86, which contributed to the degeneration of the axon and myelin sheath.
FOXM1c transactivates the human c-myc promoter directly via the two TATA boxes P1 and P2. FOXM1c transactivates the c-myc promoter via the P1 and P2 TATA boxes using a new mechanism. Whereas the P1 TATA box TATAATGC requires its sequence context to be FOXM1c responsive, the P2 TATA box TATAAAAG alone is sufficient to confer FOXM1c responsiveness to any minimal promoter. FOXM1c transactivates by binding to the TATA box as well as directly to TATA-binding protein, transcription factor IIB and transcription factor IIA. This new transactivation mechanism is clearly distinguished from the function of FOXM1c as a conventional transcription factor. The central domain of FOXM1c functions as an essential domain for activation via the TATA box, but as an inhibitory domain (retinoblastoma protein-independent transrepression domain and retinoblastoma protein-recruiting negative regulatory domain) for transactivation via conventional FOXM1c-binding sites. Each promoter with the P2 TATA box TATAAAAG is postulated to be transactivated by FOXM1c. This was demonstrated for the promoters of c-fos, hsp70 and histone H2B/a. A database search revealed almost 300 probable FOXM1c target genes, many of which function in proliferation and tumorigenesis. Accordingly, dominant-negative FOXM1c proteins reduced cell growth approximately threefold, demonstrating a proliferation-stimulating function for wild-type FOXM1c.
FOXO1-mediated epigenetic modifications are involved in the insulin-mediated repression of hepatocyte aquaporin 9 expression. Aquaporin (AQP) 9 transports glycerol and water, and belongs to the aquaglyceroporin subfamily. Insulin acts as a negative regulator of AQP9, and FOXO1 has the ability to mediate the regulatory effects of insulin on target gene expression. The aim of the present study was to determine whether insulin-induced repression of AQP9 involved an epigenetic mechanism. HepG2 human hepatocyte cells were treated with 500 μM insulin for different durations. AQP9 mRNA expression levels were determined by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR), and histone H3 acetylation, phosphorylation and methylation at the insulin responsive element (IRE) of the AQP9 promoter was assessed using chromatin immunoprecipitation coupled with qPCR. The effects of lentiviral FOXO1 overexpression on AQP9 expression levels and H3 modifications at the AQP9 promoter were also determined. The insulin treatment resulted in a significant and time-dependent reduction in AQP9 mRNA expression levels in HepG2 cells, as compared with untreated cells (P<0.05). In the insulin-treated cells, the levels of H3 acetylation and phosphorylation were significantly reduced (P<0.05), but the level of H3 methylation was increased. Enforced expression of FOXO1 increased AQP9 mRNA and protein expression levels in HepG2 cells. Furthermore, FOXO1 overexpression promoted H3 acetylation and phosphorylation, and reduced H3 methylation at the IRE locus of the AQP9 promoter. These data provide, to the best of our knowledge, the first ev idence that insulin-induced transcr iptional suppression of AQP9 expression in hepatocytes involves FOXO1-mediated H3 modifications at the IRE locus in the promoter.
Factor substitution in a human HSP70 gene promoter: TATA-dependent and TATA-independent interactions. To investigate interactions between transcription factors on mammalian promoters, we constructed a set of 24 variations of the human HSP70 gene promoter in which six upstream sequence motifs are paired in every possible combination with four TATA motifs. These promoters were analyzed for in vivo expression, and selected constructs were examined by in vitro template commitment studies. Activation transcription factor (ATF) and CP1 showed dramatically different interactions with the factor(s) bound to the TATA region. CP1 functioned in vivo regardless of the TATA motif that it was paired with and was not capable of sequestering the core promoter complex in a template commitment assay. ATF activity was dramatically altered by changing the TATA motif, and ATF was able to sequester the core promoter complex. These data suggest that CP1 motif, and ATF function by distinct mechanisms that differ with respect to interaction with the factor(s) at the TATA box. Factor Sp1 also appeared to function by a TATA-independent mechanism. These data imply that the ability of a factor to function is determined not only by the intrinsic properties of the factor but also by promoter context.
Factors influencing osteogenic differentiation of human aortic valve interstitial cells. Objective: Human aortic valve interstitial cells redifferentiate into an osteoblast-like phenotype, which is the key cellular mechanism of aortic valve calcification. Methyltransferase-like 3, the N6-methyladenosine methylation writer, has emerged as a new layer of epigenetic regulation for osteogenic differentiation of bone mesenchymal stem cells. The current study sought to determine whether methyltransferase-like 3 also plays a role in the osteogenic differentiation of human aortic valve interstitial cells. Methods: Aortic valves from patients with aortic stenosis (n = 50) and normal controls (n = 50) were subjected to determination of methyltransferase-like 3 expression. Mineralized bone matrix formation was assessed by Alizarin Red staining. The interaction between methyltransferase-like 3 and twist-related protein 1 was confirmed via luciferase reporter and N6-methyladenosine methylated RNA immunoprecipitation quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction. Results: Methyltransferase-like 3 was highly expressed in human calcified aortic valves (1.61 ± 0.50) versus normal valves (3.07 ± 0.62; P <.0001). Osteogenic stimulation for 7 days resulted in a 2.15 ± 0.16-fold increase (P <.0001) in methyltransferase-like 3 protein level compared with the control group in human aortic valve interstitial cells. Functionally, methyltransferase-like 3 acted as a positive regulator of osteogenic differentiation of human aortic valve interstitial cells. Mechanistically, methylated RNA immunoprecipitation quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction identified twist-related protein 1 as a target of methyltransferase-like 3–mediated m6A modification. Moreover, N6-methyladenosine–mediated twist-related protein 1 mRNA inhibition relied on the m6A binding protein YTH-domain family member 2–dependent pathway. Conclusions: Methyltransferase-like 3 promotes osteogenic differentiation of human aortic valve interstitial cells by inhibiting twist-related protein 1 through an N6-methyladenosine YTH-domain family member 2–dependent pathway. Our findings provide novel mechanistic insights into a critical role of methyltransferase-like 3 in the aortic valve calcification progression and shed new light on N6-methyladenosine–directed diagnostics and therapeutics in aortic valve calcification.
Feedback to the central dogma: cytoplasmic mRNA decay and transcription are interdependent processes. Transcription and RNA decay are key determinants of gene expression; these processes are typically considered as the uncoupled beginning and end of the messenger RNA (mRNA) lifecycle. Here we describe the growing number of studies demonstrating interplay between these spatially disparate processes in eukaryotes. Specifically, cells can maintain mRNA levels by buffering against changes in mRNA stability or transcription, and can also respond to virally induced accelerated decay by reducing RNA polymerase II gene expression. In addition to these global responses, there is also evidence that mRNAs containing a premature stop codon can cause transcriptional upregulation of homologous genes in a targeted fashion. In each of these systems, RNA binding proteins (RBPs), particularly those involved in mRNA degradation, are critical for cytoplasmic to nuclear communication. Although their specific mechanistic contributions are yet to be fully elucidated, differential trafficking of RBPs between subcellular compartments are likely to play a central role in regulating this gene expression feedback pathway.
Fli-1 activation through targeted promoter activity regulation using a novel 3’, 5’-diprenylated chalcone inhibits growth and metastasis of prostate cancer cells. The friend leukemia integration 1 (Fli-1) gene is involved in the expression control of key genes in multiple pathogenic/physiological processes, including cell growth, differentiation, and apoptosis; this implies that Fli-1 is a strong candidate for drug development. In our previous study, a 3′,5′-diprenylated chalcone, (E)-1-(2-hydroxy-4-methoxy-3,5-diprenyl) phenyl-3-(3-pyridinyl)-propene-1-one (C10), was identified as a novel anti-prostate cancer (PCa) agent. Here, we investigated the molecular mechanisms underlying the anti-cancer effects of C10 on the growth, metastasis, and invasion of PC3 cells in vitro. Our results show that C10 exhibited a strong inhibitory effect on proliferation and metastasis of PC3 cells via several cellular and flow cytometric analyses. Further mechanism studies revealed that C10 likely serves as an Fli-1 agonist for regulating the expression of Fli-1 target genes including phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (P110), murine double minute2 (MDM2), B-cell lymphoma-2 (Bcl-2), Src homology-2 domain-containing inositol 5-phosphatase 1 (SHIP-1), and globin transcription factor-1 (Gata-1) as well as the phosphorylation of extracellular-regulated protein kinases 1 (ERK1). Further, we confirmed that C10 can regulate the expressions of vascular endothelial growth factor 1 (VEGF-1), transforming growth factor-β2 (TGF-β2), intercellular cell adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1), p53, and matrix metalloproteinase 1 (MMP-1) genes associated with tumor apoptosis, migration, and invasion. Thus, C10 exhibits stronger anticancer activity with novel molecular targets and regulatory molecular mechanisms, indicating its great potency for development as a novel targeted anticancer drug.
FoxO4 controls sGCβ transcription in vascular smooth muscle. Nitric oxide (NO) binds soluble guanylyl cyclase β (sGCβ) to produce cGMP and relax vascular smooth muscle cells (SMCs) needed for vasodilation. Although the regulation of NO-stimulated sGC activity has been well characterized at the posttranslational level, the mechanisms that govern sGC transcription remain incompletely understood. Recently, we identified Forkhead box subclass O (FoxO) transcription factors as essential for expression of sGC; however, the specific FoxO family member responsible for the expression of sGCβ in SMC remains unknown. Using FoxO shRNA knockdown adenovirus treatment in rat aortic SMCs, we show that FoxO1 or FoxO3 knockdown causes greater than twofold increases in Gucy1a3 and Gucy1b3 mRNA expression, without changes in NO-dependent cGMP production or cGMP-dependent phosphorylation. FoxO4 knockdown produced a 50% decrease in Gucy1a3 and Gucy1b3 mRNA with 70% loss of sGCa and 50% loss of sGCβ protein expression. Knockdown of FoxO4 expression decreased cGMP production and downstream protein kinase G-dependent phosphorylation more than 50%. Triple FoxO knockdown exacerbated loss of sGC-dependent function, phenocopying previous FoxO inhibition studies. Using promoter luciferase and chromatin immunoprecipitation assays, we find that FoxO4 acts as a transcriptional activator by directly binding several FoxO DNA motifs in the promoter regions of GUCY1B3 in human aortic SMCs. Collectively, our data show FoxO4 is a critical transcriptional regulator of sGCb expression in SMC. NEW & NOTEWORTHY One of the key mechanisms of vascular smooth muscle cell (SMC) dilation occurs through nitric oxide (NO)-dependent induction of soluble guanylyl cyclase (sGC) by means of its b-subunit. Herein, we are the first to identify Forkhead box subclass O protein 4 (FoxO4) as a key transcriptional regulator of GUCY1B3 expression, which codes for sGCβ protein in human and animal SMCs. This discovery will likely have important implications for the future usage of antihypertensive and vasodilatory therapies which target NO production, sGC, or FoxO transcription factors.
Frequent inactivation of RUNX3 by promoter hypermethylation and protein mislocalization in oral squamous cell carcinomas. Purpose: RUNX3 is a functionally important component in transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β) mediated signaling pathway. Epigenetic silencing expression of RUNX3, as well as aberrant cytoplasmic retention of RUNX3 protein are causely involved in gastric carcinogenesis. Here, we examined the expression of RUNX3 gene and protein in oral squamous cell carcinomas (OSCCs) and analyzed the methylation status of RUNX3 promoter region. Methods: About 10 normal oral mucosa and 30 OSCCs were collected to examine RUNX3 expression by RT-PCR analysis and immunohistochemistry assay using anti-RUNX3 monoclonal antibody R3-6E9. Methylation-specific PCR was carried out on the same specimens to analyze the methylation status of RUNX3 promoter. In addition, the stored paraffin-embedded specimens, including 40 oral leucoplakia (OLK) and 120 OSCCs, were examined by immunohistochemistry assay. Results: RUNX3 gene and protein were underexpressed in OSCCs due to promoter hypermethylation. Protein mislocalization occured frequently. Both downregulation of RUNX3 protein expression (P = 0.001) and protein mislocalization (P = 0.001) were correlated with the differentiation grades in OSCCs. Conclusions: RUNX3 plays an important role in oral carcinogenesis. It may be a useful diagnostic marker and a potential therapeutic target for OSCC.
Functional analysis of GC box and its CpG methylation in the regulation of CYP1A2 gene expression. Although there is a putative GC box in the cytochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2) promoter, its function has remained undetermined. To understand the molecular mechanisms controlling CYP1A2 gene expression in the liver, we studied the roles of the GC box in promoter activity and the effects of its CpG methylation on CYP1A2 gene expression. The results of luciferase assays showed that promoter activity was significantly dependent on the presence of the intact GC box. The results of bisulfate sequencing showed that the CpG methylation status of the GC box was strongly associated with CYP1A2 mRNA expression in human cell lines and tissues, suggesting that CpG methylation is involved in the tissue-specific regulation of CYP1A2 gene expression. However, effects of in vitro CpG methylation of the GC box on the promoter activity were not so dramatic in the luciferase assay, suggesting that the major function of the methylated-CpG is not to inhibit transcription factors in binding to the GC box. Taken together, our results show that the GC box is a critical element for the CYP1A2 promoter and its epigenetic regulation mediated by CpG methylation may play important roles in the tissue-specific CYP1A2 gene expression. Genome-based approaches may be necessary for understanding this tissue-specific epigenetic mechanism.
Functional analysis of the promoters of the human red and green visual pigment genes. PURPOSE. To delineate cis-acting DNA elements involved in the expression of the human red and green visual pigment genes and to correlate these with transcription factor binding sites. METHODS. Assays of promoter activity were accomplished by transient transfection into WERI cells. Nested deletion and block mutagenesis were undertaken to delineate critical elements. Transcription factor binding sites were determined by DNase I footprinting and electrophoretic mobility shift (EMSA) analyses. RESULTS. The human retinoblastoma cell line WERI, but not Y-79, was found to express the red and green pigment genes. Transfection assays in WERI cells revealed that the proximal region of the red pigment gene promoter had positive (-130 to -113 and -96 to -23) and negative (-190 to -130 and -113 to -96) regulatory elements. The green pigment gene promoter was found to be 2 to 4 times more active than was that of the red pigment. This difference in activity was attributable mainly to a T to C substitution at position -3. DNase I protection and EMSA studies demonstrated the binding of several ubiquitous and WERI-enriched proteins to DNA sequences between -130 and the TATA box. The locus control region (LCR) did not have any enhancer activity in transient transfection. CONCLUSIONS. The WERI cell line is a good model system for the analysis of gene expression of the human cone visual pigment genes. The expression of these genes in a cell-specific fashion seems to be controlled mainly by positive-acting elements in the region between -130 and the TATA box. The higher activity of the green pigment gene promoter could have evolved to compensate for its longer distance from the activating LCR than that of the red pigment gene promoter (approximately 34 versus 3.5 kb). Although the LCR does not enhance transcription in transient transfection, it binds factors that also recognize the proximal promoter region. These interactions may be important for the establishment of a transcriptionally active domain in a chromatin context.
Functional and cancer genomics of ASXL family members. Additional sex combs-like (ASXL)1, ASXL2 and ASXL3 are human homologues of the Drosophila Asx gene that are involved in the regulation or recruitment of the Polycomb-group repressor complex (PRC) and trithorax-group (trxG) activator complex. ASXL proteins consist of ASXN, ASXH, ASXM1, ASXM2 and PHD domains. ASXL1 directly interacts with BAP1, KDM1A (LSD1), NCOA1 and nuclear hormone receptors (NHRs), such as retinoic acid receptors, oestrogen receptor and androgen receptor. ASXL family members are epigenetic scaffolding proteins that assemble epigenetic regulators and transcription factors to specific genomic loci with histone modifications. ASXL1 is involved in transcriptional repression through an interaction with PRC2 and also contributes to transcriptional regulation through interactions with BAP1 and/or NHR complexes. Germ-line mutations of human ASXL1 and ASXL3 occur in Bohring-Opitz and related syndromes. Amplification and overexpression of ASXL1 occur in cervical cancer. Truncation mutations of ASXL1 occur in colorectal cancers with microsatellite instability (MSI), malignant myeloid diseases, chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, and liver, prostate and breast cancers; those of ASXL2 occur in prostate cancer, pancreatic cancer and breast cancer and those of ASXL3 are observed in melanoma. EPC1-ASXL2 gene fusion occurs in adult T-cell leukaemia/lymphoma. The prognosis of myeloid malignancies with misregulating truncation mutations of ASXL1 is poor. ASXL family members are assumed to be tumour suppressive or oncogenic in a context-dependent manner.
Functional role of NF-κB in expression of human endothelial nitric oxide synthase. The transcription factor NF-κB has an essential role in inflammation in endothelial cells. Endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS)-derived nitric oxide (NO) prevents vascular inflammation. However, the molecular mechanism underlying NF-κB-mediated regulation of eNOS expression has not been clearly elucidated. We here found that NF-κB-activating stimuli, such as lipopolysaccharide, tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), and interleukin-1β, suppressed eNOS mRNA and protein levels by decreasing mRNA stability, without affecting promoter activity. TNF-α-mediated suppression of eNOS expression, mRNA stability, and 3′-untranslated region (3′UTR) activity were inhibited by NF-κB inhibitors and Dicer knockdown, but not by p38 MAPK and MEK inhibitors, suggesting the involvement of NF-κB-responsive miRNAs in eNOS expression. Moreover, TNF-α increased MIR155HG expression and promoter activity as well as miR-155 biogenesis, and these increases were blocked by NF-κB inhibitors. Transfection with antagomiR-155 blocked TNF-α-mediated suppression of eNOS 3′UTR activity, eNOS mRNA and protein levels, and NO and cGMP production. These data provide evidence that NF-κB is a negative regulator of eNOS expression via upregulation of miR-155 under inflammatory conditions. These results suggest that NF-κB is a potential therapeutic target for preventing vascular inflammation and endothelial dysfunction induced by suppression of miR-155-mediated eNOS expression.
Functional significance of conserved cysteines in the human organic cation transporter 2. The significance of conserved cysteines in the human organic cation transporter 2 (hOCT2), namely the six cysteines in the long extracellular loop (loop cysteines) and C474 in transmembrane helix 11, was examined. Uptake of tetraethylammonium (TEA) and 1-methyl-4-phenypyridinium (MPP) into Chinese hamster ovary cells was stimulated >20-fold by hOCT2 expression. Both cell surface expression and transport activity were reduced considerably following mutation of individual loop cysteines (C51, C63, C89, C103, and C143), and the C89 and C103 mutants had reduced Michaelis constants (Kt) for MPP. The loop cysteines were refractory to interaction with thiol-reactive biotinylation reagents, except after pretreatment of intact cells with dithiothreitol or following cell membrane solubilization. Reduction of disulfide bridge(s) did not affect transport, but labeling the resulting free thiols with maleimide-PEO2-biotin did. Mutation of C474 to an alanine or phenylalanine did not affect the Kt value for MPP. In contrast, the Kt value associated with TEA transport was reduced sevenfold in the C474A mutant, and the C474F mutant failed to transport TEA. This study shows that some but not all of the six extracellular loop cysteines exist within disulfide bridge(s). Each loop cysteine is important for plasma membrane targeting, and their mutation can influence substrate binding. The effect of C474 mutation on TEA transport suggests that it contributes to a TEA binding surface. Given that TEA and MPP are competitive inhibitors, the differential effects of C474 modification on TEA and MPP binding suggest that the binding surfaces for each are distinct, but overlapping in area.
Functions of FACT in Breaking the Nucleosome and Maintaining Its Integrity at the Single-Nucleosome Level. The human FACT (facilitates chromatin transcription) complex, composed of two subunits SPT16 (Suppressor of Ty 16) and SSRP1 (Structure-specific recognition protein-1), plays essential roles in nucleosome remodeling. However, the molecular mechanism of FACT reorganizing the nucleosome still remains elusive. In this study, we demonstrate that FACT displays dual functions in destabilizing the nucleosome and maintaining the original histones and nucleosome integrity at the single-nucleosome level. We found that the subunit SSRP1 is responsible for maintenance of nucleosome integrity by holding the H3/H4 tetramer on DNA and promoting the deposition of the H2A/H2B dimer onto the nucleosome. In contrast, the large subunit SPT16 destabilizes the nucleosome structure by displacing the H2A/H2B dimers. Our findings provide mechanistic insights by which the two subunits of FACT coordinate with each other to fulfill its functions and suggest that FACT may play essential roles in preserving the original histones with epigenetic identity during transcription or DNA replication. Chen  reveal that the two subunits of FACT, SSRP1 and SPT16, function distinctly but coordinately on nucleosomes to fulfill its functions in nucleosome disassembly and nucleosome integrity during DNA replication and transcription.
G Protein βγ Subunits Stimulate p114RhoGEF, a Guanine Nucleotide Exchange Factor for RhoA and Rac1: Regulation of Cell Shape and Reactive Oxygen Species Production. Rho GTPases integrate the intracellular signaling in a wide range of cellular processes. Activation of these G proteins is tightly controlled by a number of guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs). In this study, we addressed the functional role of the recently identified p114RhoGEF in in vivo experiments. Activation of endogenous G protein-coupled receptors with lysophosphatidic acid resulted in activation of a transcription factor, serum response element (SRE), that was enhanced by p114RhoGEF. This stimulation was inhibited by the functional scavenger of Gβγ subunits, transducin. We have determined that Gβγ subunits but not Gα subunits of heterotrimeric G proteins stimulated p114RhoGEF-dependent SRE activity. Using coimmunoprecipitation assay, we have determined that Gβγ subunits interacted with full-length and DH/PH domain of p114RhoGEF. Similarly, Gβγ subunits stimulated SRE activity induced by full-length and DH/ PH domain of p114RhoGEF. Using in vivo pull-down assays and dominant-negative mutants of Rho GTPases, we have determined that p114RhoGEF activated RhoA and Rac1 but not Cdc42 proteins. Functional significance of RhoA activation was established by the ability of p114RhoGEF to induce actin stress fibers and cell rounding. Functional significance of Rac1 activation was established by the ability of p114RhoGEF to induce production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) followed by activation of NADPH oxidase enzyme complex. In summary, our data showed that the novel guanine nucleotide exchange factor p114RhoGEF regulates the activity of RhoA and Rac1, and that Gβγ subunits of heterotrimeric G proteins are activators of p114RhoGEF under physiological conditions. The findings help to explain the integrated effects of LPA and other G-protein receptor-coupled agonists on actin stress fiber formation, cell shape change, and ROS production.
G protein γ subunit 7 induces autophagy and inhibits cell division. GNG7 (G protein γ subunit 7), a subunit of heterotrimeric G protein, is ubiquitously expressed in multiple tissues but is down-regulated in various cancers. Its expression could reduce tumor volume in mice but the mechanism was not clear. Here we show that GNG7 overexpression inhibits cell proliferation and increases cell death. GNG7 level is cell cycle-dependent and it regulates actin cytoskeleton and cell division. In addition, GNG7 is an autophagy inducer, which is the first reported Gγ protein involved in autophagy. GNG7 knockdown reduces Rapamycin and starvation-induced autophagy. Further analysis reveals that GNG7 inhibits MTOR in cells, a central regulator for autophagy and cell proliferation. In conclusion, GNG7 inhibits MTOR pathway to induce autophagy and cell death, inhibits cell division by regulating actin cytoskeleton. These combined effects lead to the antitumor capacity of GNG7.
GATA2 controls lymphatic endothelial cell junctional integrity and lymphovenous valve morphogenesis through MIR-126. Mutations in the transcription factor GATA2 cause lymphedema. GATA2 is necessary for the development of lymphatic valves and lymphovenous valves, and for the patterning of lymphatic vessels. Here, we report that GATA2 is not necessary for valvular endothelial cell (VEC) differentiation. Instead, GATA2 is required for VEC maintenance and morphogenesis. GATA2 is also necessary for the expression of the cell junction molecules VE-cadherin and claudin 5 in lymphatic vessels. We identified miR-126 as a target of GATA2, and miR-126−/− embryos recapitulate the phenotypes of mice lacking GATA2. Primary human lymphatic endothelial cells (HLECs) lacking GATA2 (HLECΔGATA2) have altered expression of claudin 5 and VE-cadherin, and blocking miR-126 activity in HLECs phenocopies these changes in expression. Importantly, overexpression of miR-126 in HLECΔGATA2 significantly rescues the cell junction defects. Thus, our work defines a new mechanism of GATA2 activity and uncovers miR-126 as a novel regulator of mammalian lymphatic vascular development.
GCM1 regulation of the expression of syncytin 2 and its cognate receptor MFSD2A in human placenta. Syncytin 2 is a newly identified placental membrane protein with fusogenic and immunosuppressive activities. Major facilitator superfamily domain containing 2A (MFSD2A) is the cognate receptor for syncytin 2-mediated cell-cell fusion. Both syncytin 2 and MFSD2A are highly expressed in placenta. In this study to understand the regulation of syncytin 2 and MFSD2A expression in placenta, we found that syncytin 2 gene is epigenetically silenced in nonplacental cells by cytosine-phosphate-guanine (CpG) dinucleotide methylation and that expression of syncytin 2 and MFSD2A genes are regulated by the placental transcription factor GCM1 in placental cells. Functional GCM1-binding sites were identified in syncytin 2 and MFSD2A promoters based on electrophoretic mobility shift assay and chromatin immunoprecipitation assay. Because GCM1 activity is decreased in hypoxic placental cells, we further confirmed that expression of MFSD2A is downregulated in hypoxic BeWo choriocarcinoma cells. Interestingly, ectopic expression of GCM1 activated syncytin 2 and MFSD2A expression in MCF-7 breast cancer cells and facilitated MCF-7 cell fusion. The expression of syncytin 2 in MCF-7 cells was partly attributed to CpG demethylation in the syncytin 2 promoter in the presence of GCM1. Our results suggest that GCM1 is a critical factor in controlling placental cell fusion through transcriptional regulation of syncytin 2 and MFSD2A gene expression in placenta. In addition, GCM1 may also play an important role in the epigenetic regulation of syncytin 2 gene expression.
GLCE regulates PC12 cell neuritogenesis induced by nerve growth factor through activating SMAD/ID3 signalling. Neurodevelopment is orchestrated by a series of growth factor-HS (heparan sulfate) interactions which are involved in neuritogenesis. GLCE (glucuronic acid epimerase) is a critical enzyme involved in HS synthesis, which converts GlcA (D-glucuronic acid) into IdoA (L-iduronic acid). However, the function of GLCE in neuritogenesis is largely unknown. In the present study we showed that GLCE depletion caused arrested PC12 cell growth and promoted the cell neuritogenesis and differentiation induced by NGF (nerve growth factor). PC12 cell growth was boosted by overexpression of GLCE, and neuritogenesis was impaired when GLCE depletion was rescued. Interestingly, overexpression of wild-type GLCE with Y168A and Y222A mutations led to enhanced PC12 cell growth and attenuated the neuritogenesis triggered by GLCE silencing. We showed further that GLCE depletion blocked SMAD1/5/8 phosphorylation; however, this signalling could be restored by GLCE or the mutation of its active enzymatic site. In addition, the downstream effector of SMAD1/5/8, ID3 (inhibitor of DNA binding/differentiation 3) was induced by GLCE. ID3 silencing inhibited PC12 cell growth and induced cell neuritogenesis and differentiation. In addition, ectopic expression of ID3 partially rescued the phenotype caused by GLCE silencing. The results of the present study suggest that GLCE plays a key role in PC12 cell growth and neuritogenesis through SMAD/ID3 signalling.
GPR139 and Dopamine D2 Receptor Co-express in the Same Cells of the Brain and May Functionally Interact. GPR139, a Gq-coupled receptor that is activated by the essential amino acids L-tryptophan and L-phenylalanine, is predominantly expressed in the brain and pituitary. The physiological function of GPR139 remains elusive despite the availability of pharmacological tool agonist compounds and knock-out mice. Whole tissue RNA sequencing data from human, mouse and rat tissues revealed that GPR139 and the dopamine D2 receptor (DRD2) exhibited some similarities in their distribution patterns in the brain and pituitary gland. To determine if there was true co-expression of these two receptors, we applied double in situ hybridization in mouse tissues using the RNAscope® technique. GPR139 and DRD2 mRNA co-expressed in a majority of same cells within part of the dopaminergic mesolimbic pathways (ventral tegmental area and olfactory tubercle), the nigrostriatal pathway (compact part of substantia nigra and caudate putamen), and also the tuberoinfundibular pathway (arcuate hypothalamic nucleus and anterior lobe of pituitary). Both receptors mRNA also co-express in the same cells of the brain regions involved in responses to negative stimulus and stress, such as lateral habenula, lateral septum, interpeduncular nucleus, and medial raphe nuclei. GPR139 mRNA expression was detected in the dentate gyrus and the pyramidal cell layer of the hippocampus as well as the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus. The functional interaction between GPR139 and DRD2 was studied in vitro using a calcium mobilization assay in cells co-transfected with both receptors from several species (human, rat, and mouse). The dopamine DRD2 agonist did not stimulate calcium response in cells expressing DRD2 alone consistent with the Gi signaling transduction pathway of this receptor. In cells co-transfected with DRD2 and GPR139 the DRD2 agonist was able to stimulate calcium response and its effect was blocked by either a DRD2 or a GPR139 antagonist supporting an in vitro interaction between GPR139 and DRD2. Taken together, these data showed that GPR139 and DRD2 are in position to functionally interact in native tissue.
Gene expression profiling in TWIST-depleted gastric cancer cells. TWIST is an important transcription factor during embryonic development and has recently been found to promote the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) phenomenon seen during the initial steps of tumor metastasis. To further investigate the potential targets and interacting genes of TWIST in human gastric cancer, we performed microarray analysis to compare the gene expression profiles in HGC-27 cells, with or without small interfering RNA (siRNA)-mediated depletion of TWIST. Our results showed that NF1, RAP1A, SRPX, RBL2, PFDN4, ILK, F2R, ERBB3, and MYB were up-regulated, whereas AKR1C2, FOS, GDF15, NR2F1, ATM, and CTPS were down-regulated after TWIST depletion. Moreover, TWIST-depleted HGC-27 cells showed a reversal of the morphologic and molecular changes associated with EMT. These results provide evidence that TWIST regulates the expression of several genes involved in the differentiation, adhesion, and proliferation of gastric cancer cells. The role of TWIST in the development of certain types of gastric cancer is discussed.
Gene expression profiling of ABC transporters in dermal fibroblasts of pseudoxanthoma elasticum patients identifies new candidates involved in PXE pathogenesis. Mutations in the ABCC6 gene, encoding the multidrug resistance-associated protein 6 (MRP6), cause pseudoxanthoma elasticum (PXE). This heritable disorder leads to pathological alterations in connective tissues. The implication of MRP6 deficiency in PXE is still unknown. Moreover, nothing is known about a possible compensatory expression of other ATP binding-cassette (ABC) transporter proteins in MRP6-deficient cells. We investigated the gene expression profile of 47 ABC transporters in human dermal fibroblasts of healthy controls (n=2) and PXE patients (n=4) by TaqMan low-density array. The analysis revealed the expression of 37 ABC transporter genes in dermal fibroblasts. ABCC6 gene expression was not quantifiable in fibroblasts derived from PXE patients. Seven genes (ABCA6, ABCA9, ABCA10, ABCB5, ABCC2, ABCC9 and ABCD2) were induced, whereas the gene expression of one gene (ABCA3) was decreased, comparing controls and PXE patients (with at least twofold changes). We reanalyzed the gene expression of selected ABC transporters in a larger set of dermal fibroblasts from controls and PXE patients (n=6, each). Reanalysis showed high interindividual variability between samples, but confirmed the results obtained in the array analysis. The gene expression of ABC transporter genes, as well as lineage markers of PXE, was further examined after inhibition of ABCC6 gene expression by using specific small-interfering RNA. These experiments corroborated the observed gene expression alterations, most notably in the ABCA subclass (up to fourfold, P<0.05). We therefore conclude that MRP6-deficient dermal fibroblasts exhibit a distinct gene expression profile of ABCA transporters, potentially to compensate for MRP6 deficiency. Moreover, our results point to a function for ABCC6/MRP6 in sterol transport, as sterols are preferential regulators of ABCA transporter activity and expression. Further studies are now required to uncover the role of ABCA transporters in PXE.
Gene induction and repression during terminal erythropoiesis are mediated by distinct epigenetic changes. It is unclear how epigenetic changes regulate the induction of erythroid-specific genes during terminal erythropoiesis. Here we use global mRNA sequencing (mRNA-seq) and chromatin immunoprecipitation coupled to high-throughput sequencing (CHIP-seq) to investigate the changes that occur in mRNA levels, RNA polymerase II (Pol II) occupancy, and multiple posttranslational histone modifications when erythroid progenitors differentiate into late erythroblasts.Among genes induced during this developmental transition, there was an increase in the occupancy of Pol II, the activation marks H3K4me2, H3K4me3, H3K9Ac, and H4K16Ac, and the elongation methylation mark H3K79me2. In contrast, genes that were repressed during differentiation showed relative decreases in H3K79me2 levels yet had levels of Pol II binding and active histone marks similar to those in erythroid progenitors. We also found that relative changes in histone modification levels, in particular, H3K79me2 and H4K16ac, were most predictive of gene expression patterns. Our results suggest that in terminal erythropoiesis both promoter and elongation-associated marks contribute to the induction of erythroid genes, whereas gene repression is marked by changes in histone modifications mediating Pol II elongation. Our data map the epigenetic landscape of terminal erythropoiesis and suggest that control of transcription elongation regulates gene expression during terminal erythroid differentiation.
Generation of highly selective VPAC2 receptor agonists by high throughput mutagenesis of vasoactive intestinal peptide and pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating peptide. Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating peptide (PACAP) has a specific receptor PAC1 and shares two receptors VPAC1 and VPAC2 with vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP). VPAC2 activation enhances glucose-induced insulin release while VPAC1 activation elevates glucose output. To generate a large pool of VPAC2 selective agonists for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, structure-activity relationship studies were performed on PACAP, VIP, and a VPAC2 selective VIP analog. Chemical modifications on this analog that prevent recombinant expression were sequentially removed to show that a recombinant peptide would retain VPAC2 selectivity. An efficient recombinant expression system was then developed to produce and screen hundreds of mutant peptides. The 11 mutations found on the VIP analog were systematically replaced with VIP or PACAP sequences. Three of these mutations, V19A, L27K, and N28K, were sufficient to provide most of the VPAC2 selectivity. C-terminal extension with the KRY sequence from PACAP38 led to potent VPAC2 agonists with improved selectivity (100-1000-fold). Saturation mutagenesis at positions 19, 27, 29, and 30 of VIP and charge-scanning mutagenesis of PACAP27 generated additional VPAC2 selective agonists. We have generated the first set of recombinant VPAC2 selective agonists described, which exhibit activity profiles that suggest therapeutic utility in the treatment of diabetes.
Genes promoting and disturbing testis development. Mammals have an XX/XY sex chromosomal sex determination system in which males represent the heterogametic sex. The Y-linked gene, SRY, determines sex by inducing the undifferentiated, bipotential gonads to differentiate as testes, which produce androgens and promote in this way the development of a male phenotype. Thus, in mammals, sex determination can be equated to testis determination, which involves several important cell processes, including Sertoli cell differentiation, mesonephric cell migration, testis cord formation, testis-specific vascularization, and myoid and Leydig cell differentiation. Many genes are currently known to be involved in testis development. Some of them, including SF1, WT1, GATA4 and FOG2, are necessary for the formation of the bipotential, undifferentiated gonad but also have important roles in testis differentiation. Others can be considered testispromoting, differentaition and/or maintenance genes: These include SRY, SOX9, FGF9, PTGDS, SOX8, SOX3, NR0B1, PDGFRa, DMRT1, AMH, NGF, NTF3 and NGFR as the most important examples. Finally, there is a smaller group of genes which are involved in ovarian development and which can cause aberrant testis development if mutated, including RSPO1, WNT4, CTNNB1, FST, BMP2 and FOXL2. In this paper, we review our current knowledge on the function, spatiotemporal expression pattern and mutant sexual phenotypes associated with these genes, and discuss the various roles they play in gonad development.
Genetic polymorphism of glutathione S-transferase P1 gene and lung cancer risk. Objectives: The human GSTTP1 gene is polymorphic with an A→G transition in exon 5 causing a replacement 105 Ile→Val in the GSTP1 protein. The two isoforms, encoded by the alleles GSTP1*A and GSTP1*B, respectively, show different catalytic efficiencies towards some carcinogenic epoxides. In this study we have addressed the possible role of the Ile105Val GSTP1 polymorphism in lung cancer susceptibility. Methods: The polymorphic site was genotyped by RFLP in a group of lung cancer patients (n = 164) and in two control groups (healthy smokers, n = 132; general population, n = 200). All patients and controls were Northwestern Mediterranean Caucasians of the same ethnic origin. Results and Conclusions: The cancer patients showed frequencies of GSTP1*A/A; GSTP1*A/B and GSTP1*B/B (50%, 38%, 11%, respectively) very similar to those of both control groups (healthy smokers: 48%, 41%, 11%). After adjusting for age, sex and smoking status, no association was found between the GSTP1*B allele and lung cancer risk (OR: 1.18; 95% CI: 0.67-2.07). The Ile105val GSTP1 polymorphism was also analysed in combination with the GSTM1 and GSTT1 genes. The results showed that allelism at GSTP1 did not increase the risk associated with the GSTM1 or GSTT1 deletions.
Genetic polymorphisms of GSTT1, GSTM1, and NQO1 genes and diabetes mellitus risk in Chinese population. Objective: The aims of the present study were to assess whether the glutathione S-transferase T1 (GSTT1), M1 (GSTM1), and NAD(P)H: quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1) genotypes are associated with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2 DM) and to ascertain whether the levels of blood lipids given exposure to diabetes are modified by the specific genetic polymorphisms of GSTT1, GSTM1, and NQO1. Methods: This case-control study was conducted on 200 subjects. The genotypes were determined using a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and PCR-restriction fragment length polymorphism. Results: The GSTT1-present genotype conferred a statistically significant 0.49-fold reduction in risk of T2 DM relative to the null genotype. Individuals with GSTT1-null or GSTM1-null genotype had higher levels of low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol, apolipoprotein B, and lipoprotein(a), respectively. There was no association between either GSTM1 or NQO1 polymorphism and risk of T2 DM. Conclusion: The present results suggest that the GSTT1 gene may contribute to the development of T2 DM and may be one of the candidate genes of T2 DM in Chinese population.
Genetic variants in mRNA untranslated regions. Genome Wide Association Studies (GWAS) have mapped thousands of genetic variants associated with complex disease risk and regulating quantitative traits, thus exploiting an unprecedented high-resolution genetic characterization of the human genome. A small fraction (3.7%) of the identified associations is located in untranslated regions (UTRs), and the molecular mechanism has been elucidated for few of them. Genetic variations at UTRs may modify regulatory elements affecting the interaction of the UTRs with proteins and microRNAs. The overall functional consequences include modulation of messenger RNA (mRNA) transcription, secondary structure, stability, localization, translation, and access to regulators like microRNAs (miRNAs) and RNA-binding proteins (RBPs). Alterations of these regulatory mechanisms are known to modify molecular pathways and cellular processes, potentially leading to disease processes. Here, we analyze some examples of genetic risk variants mapping in the UTR regulatory elements. We describe a recently identified genetic variant localized in the 3′UTR of the TNFSF13B gene, associated with autoimmunity risk and responsible of an increased stability and translation of TNFSF13B mRNA. We discuss how the correct use and interpretation of public GWAS repositories could lead to a better understanding of etiopathogenetic mechanisms and the generation of robust biological hypothesis as starting point for further functional studies. This article is categorized under: RNA Structure and Dynamics > RNA Structure, Dynamics and Chemistry RNA Evolution and Genomics > Computational Analyses of RNA RNA in Disease and Development > RNA in Disease.
Genetic variation in healthy oldest-old. Individuals who live to 85 and beyond without developing major age-related diseases may achieve this, in part, by lacking disease susceptibility factors, or by possessing resistance factors that enhance their ability to avoid disease and prolong lifespan. Healthy aging is a complex phenotype likely to be affected by both genetic and environmental factors. We sequenced 24 candidate healthy aging genes in DNA samples from 47 healthy individuals aged eighty-five years or older (the 'oldest-old'), to characterize genetic variation that is present in this exceptional group. These healthy seniors were never diagnosed with cancer, cardiovascular disease, pulmonary disease, diabetes, or Alzheimer disease. We re-sequenced all exons, intron-exon boundaries and selected conserved non-coding sequences of candidate genes involved in aging-related processes, including dietary restriction (PPARG, PPARGC1A, SIRT1, SIRT3, UCP2, UCP3), metabolism (IGF1R, APOB, SCD), autophagy (BECN1, FRAP1), stem cell activation (NOTCH1, DLL1), tumor suppression (TP53, CDKN2A, ING1), DNA methylation (TRDMT1, DNMT3A, DNMT3B) Progeria syndromes (LMNA, ZMPSTE24, KL) and stress response (CRYAB, HSPB2). We detected 935 variants, including 848 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and 87 insertion or deletions; 41% (385) were not recorded in dbSNP. This study is the first to present a comprehensive analysis of genetic variation in aging-related candidate genes in healthy oldest-old. These variants and especially our novel polymorphisms are valuable resources to test for genetic association in models of disease susceptibility or resistance. In addition, we propose an innovative tagSNP selection strategy that combines variants identified through gene re-sequencing- and HapMap-derived SNPs.
Genome architecture marked by retrotransposons modulates predisposition to DNA methylation in cancer. Epigenetic silencing plays an important role in cancer development. An attractive hypothesis is that local DNA features may participate in differential predisposition to gene hypermethylation. We found that, compared with methylation-resistant genes, methylation-prone genes have a lower frequency of SINE and LINE retrotransposons near their transcription start site. In several large testing sets, this distribution was highly predictive of promoter methylation. Genome-wide analysis showed that 22% of human genes were predicted to be methylation-prone in cancer; these tended to be genes that are down-regulated in cancer and that function in developmental processes. Moreover, retrotransposon distribution marks a larger fraction of methylation-prone genes compared to Polycomb group protein (PcG) marking in embryonic stem cells; indeed, PcG marking and our predictive model based on retrotransposon frequency appear to be correlated but also complementary. In summary, our data indicate that retrotransposon elements, which are widespread in our genome, are strongly associated with gene promoter DNA methylation in cancer and may in fact play a role in influencing epigenetic regulation in normal and abnormal physiological states.
Genome-wide CRISPRi/a screens in human neurons link lysosomal failure to ferroptosis. Single-cell transcriptomics provide a systematic map of gene expression in different human cell types. The next challenge is to systematically understand cell-type-specific gene function. The integration of CRISPR-based functional genomics and stem cell technology enables the scalable interrogation of gene function in differentiated human cells. Here we present the first genome-wide CRISPR interference and CRISPR activation screens in human neurons. We uncover pathways controlling neuronal response to chronic oxidative stress, which is implicated in neurodegenerative diseases. Unexpectedly, knockdown of the lysosomal protein prosaposin strongly sensitizes neurons, but not other cell types, to oxidative stress by triggering the formation of lipofuscin, a hallmark of aging, which traps iron, generating reactive oxygen species and triggering ferroptosis. We also determine transcriptomic changes in neurons after perturbation of genes linked to neurodegenerative diseases. To enable the systematic comparison of gene function across different human cell types, we establish a data commons named CRISPRbrain.
Genome-wide analysis of PDX1 target genes in human pancreatic progenitors. Objective: Homozygous loss-of-function mutations in the gene coding for the homeobox transcription factor (TF) PDX1 leads to pancreatic agenesis, whereas heterozygous mutations can cause Maturity-Onset Diabetes of the Young 4 (MODY4). Although the function of Pdx1 is well studied in pre-clinical models during insulin-producing β-cell development and homeostasis, it remains elusive how this TF controls human pancreas development by regulating a downstream transcriptional program. Also, comparative studies of PDX1 binding patterns in pancreatic progenitors and adult β-cells have not been conducted so far. Furthermore, many studies reported the association between single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and T2DM, and it has been shown that islet enhancers are enriched in T2DM-associated SNPs. Whether regions, harboring T2DM-associated SNPs are PDX1 bound and active at the pancreatic progenitor stage has not been reported so far. Methods: In this study, we have generated a novel induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) line that efficiently differentiates into human pancreatic progenitors (PPs). Furthermore, PDX1 and H3K27ac chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq) was used to identify PDX1 transcriptional targets and active enhancer and promoter regions. To address potential differences in the function of PDX1 during development and adulthood, we compared PDX1 binding profiles from PPs and adult islets. Moreover, combining ChIP-seq and GWAS meta-analysis data we identified T2DM-associated SNPs in PDX1 binding sites and active chromatin regions. Results: ChIP-seq for PDX1 revealed a total of 8088 PDX1-bound regions that map to 5664 genes in iPSC-derived PPs. The PDX1 target regions include important pancreatic TFs, such as PDX1 itself, RFX6, HNF1B, and MEIS1, which were activated during the differentiation process as revealed by the active chromatin mark H3K27ac and mRNA expression profiling, suggesting that auto-regulatory feedback regulation maintains PDX1 expression and initiates a pancreatic TF program. Remarkably, we identified several PDX1 target genes that have not been reported in the literature in human so far, including RFX3, required for ciliogenesis and endocrine differentiation in mouse, and the ligand of the Notch receptor DLL1, which is important for endocrine induction and tip-trunk patterning. The comparison of PDX1 profiles from PPs and adult human islets identified sets of stage-specific target genes, associated with early pancreas development and adult β-cell function, respectively. Furthermore, we found an enrichment of T2DM-associated SNPs in active chromatin regions from iPSC-derived PPs. Two of these SNPs fall into PDX1 occupied sites that are located in the intronic regions of TCF7L2 and HNF1B. Both of these genes are key transcriptional regulators of endocrine induction and mutations in cis-regulatory regions predispose to diabetes. Conclusions: Our data provide stage-specific target genes of PDX1 during in vitro differentiation of stem cells into pancreatic progenitors that could be useful to identify pathways and molecular targets that predispose for diabetes. In addition, we show that T2DM-associated SNPs are enriched in active chromatin regions at the pancreatic progenitor stage, suggesting that the susceptibility to T2DM might originate from imperfect execution of a β-cell developmental program.
Genome-wide identification of TAL1's functional targets: Insights into its mechanisms of action in primary erythroid cells. Coordination of cellular processes through the establishment of tissue-specific gene expression programs is essential for lineage maturation. The basic helix-loop-helix hemopoietic transcriptional regulator TAL1 (formerly SCL) is required for terminal differentiation of red blood cells. To gain insight into TAL1 function and mechanisms of action in erythropoiesis, we performed ChIP-sequencing and gene expression analyses from primary fetal liver erythroid cells. We show that TAL1 coordinates expression of genes in most known red cell-specific processes. The majority of TAL1's genomic targets require direct DNA-binding activity. However, one-fifth of TAL1's target sequences, mainly among those showing high affinity for TAL1, can recruit the factor independently of its DNA binding activity. An unbiased DNA motif search of sequences bound by TAL1 identified CAGNTG as TAL1-preferred E-box motif in erythroid cells. Novel motifs were also characterized that may help distinguish activated from repressed genes and suggest a new mechanism by which TAL1 may be recruited to DNA. Finally, analysis of recruitment of GATA1, a protein partner of TAL1, to sequences occupied by TAL1 suggests that TAL1's binding is necessary prior or simultaneous to that of GATA1. This work provides the framework to study regulatory networks leading to erythroid terminal maturation and to model mechanisms of action of tissue-specific transcription factors.
Genomic footprinting and sequencing of human β-globin locus. Tissue specificity and cell line artifact. In order to gain further insights of the regulatory mechanisms of human β-like globin gene switch during erythroid development, we have studied protein-DNA interaction in vivo at the human adult β and fetal γ globin promoters and their upstream enhancer, 5'HS-2, in purified human adult erythroblasts, in which the β, but not γ or ε, globin gene is actively transcribing. This genomic footprinting analysis of adult erythroblasts was carried out in conjunction with those of different non-erythroid human tissues, an embryonic/fetal erythroid cell line K562, and several non- erythroid human cell lines. Protein-DNA binding in the β globin promoter, in particular at the two CACC promoter boxes and the CCAAT box, is detectable only in the adult erythroblasts. As expected, the γ globin promoters were bound with specific nuclear factors in the expressing K562 cells, but not in non-erythroid tissues or cell lines. Relatively weak protein binding could also be detected in the vicinities of the two CCAAT boxes of the inactive γ globin promoters in the adult erythroblasts. Although the patterns of nuclear factor-DNA interaction in vivo at the NF-E2/AP1, GATA-1, and GT-I motifs of 5'HS-2 enhancer in adult erythroblasts are similar to those in K562 cells, we have identified a previously undetected factor-binding motif of 5'HS-2 that is protected only in the adult erythroblasts. This motif is identical in sequence to the 3'-CACC box of the human β globin promoter, and it is well conserved at the same location among all mammalian 5'HS-2 enhancers, suggesting an important regulatory role of this element in human β globin gene transcription in adult erythroblasts. All of the above four motifs of 5'HS-2 are free of nuclear factor binding in non-erythroid tissues, but two of them, NF-E2/AP1 and GT-I, are bound with factors in some non-erythroid cell lines but not in others. The functional implications of these genomic footprinting data and the tissue-specific CpG methylation patterns of the β- like globin promoters we obtained by genomic sequencing are discussed in terms of positive and negative regulation of the human β-like globin switch during erythroid development.
Genomic instability promoted by overexpression of mismatch repair factors in yeast: A model for understanding cancer progression. Mismatch repair (MMR) proteins act in spellchecker roles to excise misincorporation errors that occur during DNA replication. Curiously, large-scale analyses of a variety of cancers showed that increased expression of MMR proteins often correlated with tumor aggressiveness, metastasis, and early recurrence. To better understand these observations, we used The Cancer Genome Atlas and Gene Expression across Normal and Tumor tissue databases to analyze MMR protein expression in cancers. We found that the MMR genes MSH2 and MSH6 are overexpressed more frequently than MSH3, and that MSH2 and MSH6 are often cooverex-pressed as a result of copy number amplifications of these genes. These observations encouraged us to test the effects of upregulating MMR protein levels in baker’s yeast, where we can sensitively monitor genome instability phenotypes associated with cancer initiation and progression. Msh6 overexpression (two-to fourfold) almost completely disrupted mechanisms that prevent recombination between divergent DNA sequences by interacting with the DNA polymerase processivity clamp PCNA and by sequestering the Sgs1 helicase. Importantly, cooverexpression of Msh2 and Msh6 (~eightfold) conferred, in a PCNA interaction-dependent manner, several genome instability phenotypes including increased mutation rate, increased sensitivity to the DNA replication inhibitor HU and the DNA-damaging agents MMS and 4-nitroquinoline N-oxide, and elevated loss-of-heterozygosity. Msh2 and Msh6 cooverexpression also altered the cell cycle distribution of exponentially growing cells, resulting in an increased fraction of unbudded cells, consistent with a larger percentage of cells in G1. These novel observations suggested that overexpression of MSH factors affected the integrity of the DNA replication fork, causing genome instability phenotypes that could be important for promoting cancer progression.
Genomic space of mgmt in human glioma revisited: Novel motifs, regulatory rnas, nrf1, 2, and ctcf involvement in gene expression. Background: The molecular regulation of increased MGMT expression in human brain tumors, the associated regulatory elements, and linkages of these to its epigenetic silencing are not understood. Because the heightened expression or non-expression of MGMT plays a pivotal role in glioma therapeutics, we applied bioinformatics and experimental tools to identify the regulatory elements in the MGMT and neighboring EBF3 gene loci. Results: Extensive genome database analyses showed that the MGMT genomic space was rich in and harbored many undescribed RNA regulatory sequences and recognition motifs. We extended the MGMT’s exon-1 promoter to 2019 bp to include five overlapping alternate promoters. Consensus sequences in the revised promoter for (a) the transcriptional factors CTCF, NRF1/NRF2, GAF, (b) the genetic switch MYC/MAX/MAD, and (c) two well-defined p53 response elements in MGMT intron-1, were identified. A putative protein-coding or non-coding RNA sequence was located in the extended 3′ UTR of the MGMT transcript. Eleven non-coding RNA loci coding for miRNAs, antisense RNA, and lncRNAs were identified in the MGMT-EBF3 region and six of these showed validated potential for curtailing the expression of both MGMT and EBF3 genes. ChIP analysis verified the binding site in MGMT promoter for CTCF which regulates the genomic methylation and chromatin looping. CTCF depletion by a pool of specific siRNA and shRNAs led to a significant attenuation of MGMT expression in human GBM cell lines. Computational analysis of the ChIP sequence data in ENCODE showed the presence of NRF1 in the MGMT promoter and this occurred only in MGMT-proficient cell lines. Further, an enforced NRF2 expression markedly augmented the MGMT mRNA and protein levels in glioma cells. Conclusions: We provide the first evidence for several new regulatory components in the MGMT gene locus which predict complex transcriptional and posttranscriptional controls with potential for new therapeutic avenues.
Germline sequence analysis of RABL3 in a large series of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma patients reveals no evidence of deleterious variants. Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a lethal disease with a 5-year survival rate of less than 10%. Individuals with a pathogenic germline variant in a pancreatic cancer susceptibility gene are at an increased risk of developing pancreatic cancer. Understanding the inherited genetic basis of pancreatic tumor development provides a unique opportunity to improve patient care and outcomes. For example, relatives of a patients with PDAC who have a pathogenic germline variant in a pancreatic cancer susceptibility gene are eligible for disease surveillance where cancers may be detected early, and 5-year survival greatly improved. Furthermore, for some patients with PDAC and a pathogenic germline variant in a pancreatic cancer susceptibility gene, their tumors may be susceptible to specific anti-cancer therapies. Recently, RABL3 was identified as a pancreatic cancer susceptibility gene. To validate these findings and inform clinical translation, we determined the prevalence of deleterious RABL3 variants in a large cohort of 1037 patients with PDAC that had undergone either whole genome or whole exome germline sequencing. We identified two synonymous variants and four missense variants classified as variants of unknown significance. We found no pathogenic RABL3 variants, indicating that the maximum prevalence of such variants in patients with PDAC is less than 0.36% (minor allele frequency 0, 97.5% one-sided confidence interval: 0-0.0036). This finding has important implications for germline genetic testing of patients with PDAC.
Gli signaling pathway modulates fibroblast activation and facilitates scar formation in pulmonary fibrosis. Pulmonary fibrosis is characterized by progressive and irreversible scarring of alveoli, which causes reduction of surface epithelial area and eventually respiratory failure. The precise mechanism of alveolar scarring is poorly understood. In this study, we explored transcriptional signatures of activated fibroblasts in alveolar airspaces by using intratracheal transfer in bleomycin-induced lung fibrosis. Lung fibroblasts transferred into injured alveoli upregulated genes related to translation and metabolism in the first two days, and upregulated genes related to extracellular matrix (ECM) production between day 2 and 7. Upstream analysis of these upregulated genes suggested possible contribution of hypoxia-inducible factors 1a (Hif1a) to fibroblast activation in the first two days, and possible contribution of kruppel-like factor 4 (Klf4) and glioma-associated oncogene (Gli) transcription factors to fibroblast activation in the following profibrotic phase. Fibroblasts purified based on high Acta2 expression after intratracheal transfer were also characterized by ECM production and upstream regulation by Klf4 and Gli proteins. Pharmacological inhibition of Gli proteins by GANT61 in bleomycin-induced lung fibrosis altered the pattern of scarring characterized by dilated airspaces and smaller fibroblast clusters. Activated fibroblasts isolated from GANT61-treated mice showed decreased migration capacity, suggesting that Gli signaling inhibition attenuated fibroblast activation. In conclusion, we revealed transcriptional signatures and possible upstream regulators of activated fibroblasts in injured alveolar airspaces. The altered scar formation by Gli signaling inhibition supports that activated fibroblasts in alveolar airspaces may play a critical role in scar formation.
Global chondrocyte gene expression after a single anabolic loading period: Time evolution and re-inducibility of mechano-responses. Aim of this study was a genome-wide identification of mechano-regulated genes and candidate pathways in human chondrocytes subjected to a single anabolic loading episode and characterization of time evolution and re-inducibility of the response. Osteochondral constructs consisting of a chondrocyte-seeded collagen-scaffold connected to β-tricalcium-phosphate were pre-cultured for 35 days and subjected to dynamic compression (25% strain, 1 Hz, 9 × 10 min over 3 hr) before microarray-profiling was performed. Proteoglycan synthesis was determined by 35S-sulfate-incorporation over 24 hr. Cell viability and hardness of constructs were unaltered by dynamic compression while proteoglycan synthesis was significantly stimulated (1.45-fold, p = 0.016). Among 115 significantly regulated genes, 114 were up-regulated, 48 of them ≥ twofold. AP-1-relevant transcription factors FOSB and FOS strongly increased in line with elevated ERK1/2-phosphorylation and rising MAP3K4 expression. Expression of proteoglycan-synthesizing enzymes CHSY1 and GALNT4 was load-responsive as were factors associated with the MAPK-, TGF-β-, calcium-, retinoic-acid-, Wnt-, and Notch-signaling pathway which were significantly upregulated SOX9, and BMP6 levels rose significantly also after multiple loading episodes at daily intervals even at the 14th cycle with no indication for desensitation. Canonical pSmad2/3 and pSmad1/5/9-signaling showed no consistent regulation. This study associates novel genes with mechanoregulation in chondrocytes, raising SOX9 protein levels with anabolic loading and suggests that more pathways than so far anticipated apparently work together in a complex network of stimulators and feedback-regulators. Upregulation of mechanosensitive indicators extending differentially into the resting time provides crucial knowledge to maximize cartilage matrix deposition for the generation of high-level cartilage replacement tissue.
Glucocorticoid receptor positively regulates transcription of FNDC5 in the liver. Irisin is secreted by skeletal muscle during exercise and influences energy and metabolic homeostasis. This hormone is a cleaved and secreted fragment of fibronectin type III domain-containing 5 (FNDC5). Elucidation of the FNDC5 gene regulation mechanism is necessary to clarify the function of irisin as a potential therapeutic target in human metabolic diseases. Thus, we investigated the genetic and epigenetic mechanisms that regulate expression of the FNDC5 gene. FNDC5 mRNA was strong expressed in major energy-dependent human tissues, including heart, brain, liver, and skeletal muscle. Promoter analysis of the FNDC5 gene revealed that the core promoter region of the FNDC5 gene contained one CpG island that was located just upstream of the transcriptional start site for variants 2 and 3. Treatment with the histone deacetylase inhibitor sodium butyrate and the demethylating agent 5-azacytidine increased mRNA expression of FNDC5 in Huh7 cells. Prediction of transcription factor binding sites suggested that the glucocorticoid receptor was involved in the regulation of FNDC5 expression, and indeed, cortisol treatment increased mRNA expression of FNDC5 in Huh7 cells. Collectively, these findings offer insight into the genetic and epigenetic regulation of FNDC5, providing the initial steps required for understanding the role of irisin in the metabolic homeostasis.
Glucocorticoid resistance in a multiple myeloma cell line is regulated by a transcription elongation block in the glucocorticoid receptor gene (NR3C1). Glucocorticoid (GC) effects are mediated by the glucocorticoid receptor (GR). Several studies have demonstrated that a lower number of receptors per cell were associated with poor GC response. The regulation of GR expression is complex; the levels of GR can be autologously regulated by its ligand and also by transcriptional, post-transcriptional and post-translational mechanisms. Using three human myeloma cell lines that parallel the development of GC resistance, this work describes the mechanism involved in the downregulation of GR expression. The decreased expression was neither due to mutations in the gene encoding GR, NR3C1, nor due to methylation of the promoters. A gradual decrease in NR3C1 transcripts was seen during the development of resistance, the level of expression of exon 1 to 2 RNA fragments remained the same in sensitive and resistant cell lines but a chromatin immunoprecipitation assay demonstrated that RNA polymerase II, detectable throughout exon 2 to 3 in the sensitive cells, was undetectable on exon 3 in the resistant variant, suggesting lower or no transcription at this site. These studies demonstrated that downregulation of NR3C1 mRNA in a resistant cell line involves a block to transcriptional elongation within intron B of NR3C1. This block may represent an important element in the regulation of GR expression.
Glucose regulation of insulin gene transcription and pre-mRNA processing in human islets. Glucose is the primary regulator of insulin granule release from pancreatic islets. In rodent islets, the role of glucose in the acute regulation of insulin gene transcription has remained unclear, primarily because the abundance and long half-life of insulin mRNA confounds analysis of transcription by traditional methods that measure steady-state mRNA levels. To investigate the nature of glucose-regulated insulin gene transcription in human islets, we first quantitated the abundance and half-lives of insulin mRNA and pre-mRNAs after addition of actinomycin D (to stop transcription). Our results indicated that intron 1- and intron 2-containing pre-mRNAs were ∼150- and 2,000-fold less abundant, respectively, than mature mRNA. 5′ intron 2-containing pre-mRNAs displayed half-lives of only ∼60 min, whereas all other transcripts displayed more extended lifetimes. In response to elevated glucose, pre-mRNA species increased within 60 min, whereas increases in mature mRNA did not occur until 48 h, suggesting that measurement of mature mRNA species does not accurately reflect the acute transcriptional response of the insulin gene to glucose. The acute increase in pre-mRNA species was preceded by a sixfold increase in histone H4 acetylation and a twofold increase in RNA polymerase II recruitment at the insulin promoter. Taken together, our data suggest that pre-mRNA species may be a more reliable reflection of acute changes to human insulin gene transcriptional rates and that glucose acutely enhances insulin transcription by a mechanism that enhances chromatin accessibility and leads to recruitment of basal transcriptional machinery.
Glutarylation of Histone H4 Lysine 91 Regulates Chromatin Dynamics. Histone posttranslational modifications (PTMs) regulate chromatin structure and dynamics during various DNA-associated processes. Here, we report that lysine glutarylation (Kglu) occurs at 27 lysine residues on human core histones. Using semi-synthetic glutarylated histones, we show that an evolutionarily conserved Kglu at histone H4K91 destabilizes nucleosome in vitro. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the replacement of H4K91 by glutamate that mimics Kglu influences chromatin structure and thereby results in a global upregulation of transcription and defects in cell-cycle progression, DNA damage repair, and telomere silencing. In mammalian cells, H4K91glu is mainly enriched at promoter regions of highly expressed genes. A downregulation of H4K91glu is tightly associated with chromatin condensation during mitosis and in response to DNA damage. The cellular dynamics of H4K91glu is controlled by Sirt7 as a deglutarylase and KAT2A as a glutaryltransferase. This study designates a new histone mark (Kglu) as a new regulatory mechanism for chromatin dynamics.
Glutathione S-transferase GSTP1 genotypes are associated with response to androgen ablation therapy in advanced prostate cancer. We determined whether the glutathione S-transferase GSTP1 Ile105 → Val105 substitution is associated with response to androgen ablation therapy in patients with advanced prostate cancer. As response may be associated with tumor grade, Gleason score, clinical T stage and presence of metastases we also determined if GSTP1 genotypes were associated with these prognostic parameters. We speculated that GSTP1 Ile105/Ile105 would be linked with good response to androgen ablation therapy and, low/moderate tumor grade, 1/2 clinical T-stage, Gleason score <6 and, no metastases. Genotype frequencies in cases and controls were not significantly different (P = 0.70) indicating that allelism in GSTP1 is not associated with susceptibility. There was no association between GSTP1 (Ile105/Ile105 versus Ile105/Val105 and Val105/Val105) and grade (P = 0.28, OR = 0.92), Gleason score (P = 0.84, OR = 0.94) or metastatic state (P = 0.68, OR = 0.88) though the frequency of GSTP1 Ile105/Ile105 was higher in cases with stage 1/2 tumors than those with stage 3/4 tumors (P = 0.03, OR = 1.89). GSTP1 Val105/Val105 was also associated with response to hormone ablation therapy. Thus, the GSTP1 Ile105/Ile105 frequency was significantly higher in 86/118 patients who demonstrated a good response than in those with poor response (P = 0.03, OR = 2.70). We speculate that the association of GSTP1 with response results from an effect of the gene product early in carcinogenesis.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTM1, GSTTl and GSTPl) and N-acetyltransferase 2 Polymorphisms and the risk of gastric cancer. Objectives : Polymorphisms of genes from glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) and N-acetyltransferase 2 (NAT2) have been associated with increased susceptibility to various cancers. Previous results showed that East Asians such as Koreans, Japanese and Chinese have a much higher frequency of the GSTM1 and GSTT1 null genotypes and NAT2 rapid acetylator type. Therefore, we investigated the association between the polymorphic types of GSTs (GSTM1, GSTT1, GSTP1) and NAT2 and the incidence of gastric cancer which is one of the most prevalent cancers among the East Asians. Methods : It was performed in a case-control study consisting of 238 healthy subjects and 108 cancer patients (54 distal and 54 proximal carcinomas). We also evaluated the association between GSTs and NAT2 and the risk factors for gastric cancer such as alcohol consumption, smoking, H. pylori infection, family history of gastric cancer, and tumor location. Results : In our study, the percentage of cases whose hometown was rural was higher than those of controls (odds ratio (OR) =2.88; 95% 01 = 1.72-4.76), and the frequency of the lower socio-economic status increased significantly in patients (OR=2.53; 95% Cl=1.59-4.02). There was no significant difference in the GST polymorphic types between the cases and controls. However, NAT2 rapid or intermediate acetylator types were frequently detected in the cases with family history of gastric cancer (OR=1.92; 95% Cl=1.79-26.0). Conclusions : These results suggest that the hometown and socio-economic status are important environmental factors for gastric carcinogenesis, and NAT2 polymorphic types could be associated with familial gastric carcinoma.
Glycosylation of a novel member of the immunoglobulin gene superfamily expressed in rat carcinoma cell lines. MAb E4 recognizes a 66‐kDa glycoprotein, pE4, which is a member of the immunoglobulin gene superfamily. This protein is expressed at the cell surface in rat colon and mammary carcinomas, but only in trace amounts in normal adult rat tissues. Since expression of aberrant carbohydrate structures is often associated with malignant transformation, glycosylation of pE4 was analyzed. Reactivity of lectins with pE4 suggested the absence of N‐acetylneuraminic acid, terminal galactose and O‐linked glycan, and the presence of N‐linked glycans. Tunica‐mycin treatment reduced the binding of MAb E4 to cancer cells suggesting that the E4 epitope is at least partially glycosylated. Digestions with neuraminidases, O‐glycosidase and peptide‐N‐glycosidase F confirmed these results. Pronase treatment abolished the binding of MAb E4, indicating that E4 epitope involves not only a carbohydrate determinant but also a peptide moiety. Mild periodate oxidation abolished the binding of MAb E4, indicating that non‐reducing terminus carbohydrates are part of the E4 epitope. Neutral sugar analysis revealed the absence of galactose and the presence of fucose. Since fucose is sensitive to periodate oxidation, this sugar could be the carbohydrate part of the determinant recognized by MAb E4. Reactivity of lectins specific for fucose indicated the presence of ø(1‐6)‐fucose on pE4.
Granulosa cell transcriptomic study reveals the differential regulation of lncRNAs and mRNAs related to follicle development in goat. Mammalian follicle development is a complex biological process regulated by several factors. More than 99% of the follicles in goat ovaries will be atresia and only a few will eventually mature and ovulate. To investigate the potential long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) that regulate the expression of genes associated with follicular dominance or atresia, RNA-seq was performed on dominant follicles (DFs) and subordinate follicles (SFs) of granulosa cells from goats at the first follicular wave. A total of 92 differentially expressed lncRNAs and 676 differentially expressed mRNAs were detected in both types of follicles. The qRT-PCR results were consistent with the transcriptome sequencing data. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes analysis of the differentially expressed mRNAs revealed that LHR and LDLR are associated with follicle dominance and are involved in the ovarian steroidogenesis pathway. The co-located mRNAs CALM2 and PPP1CA were significantly enriched during oocyte meiosis and in the cAMP and oxytocin signalling pathways. The co-expressed mRNAs were significantly enriched in the oestrogen signalling pathway and in ovarian steroidogenesis and progesterone-mediated oocyte maturation. A co-expression network of lncRNAs, target genes and differentially expressed genes was constructed. Follicle development-related genes, such as LDLR, NOTCH1 and FGF12, were included. These findings expand the lncRNA catalogue and provide a basis for further studies on the mechanism of regulating follicular development in goats.
HIF-2α regulates NANOG expression in human embryonic stem cells following hypoxia and reoxygenation through the interaction with an oct-sox cis regulatory element. Low O2 tension is beneficial for human embryonic stem cell (hESC) maintenance but the mechanism of regulation is unknown. HIF-2α was found to bind directly to predicted hypoxic response elements (HREs) in the proximal promoter of OCT4, NANOG and SOX2 only in hESCs cultured under hypoxia (5% O2). This binding induced an array of histone modifications associated with gene transcription while a heterochromatic state existed at atmospheric O2. Interestingly, an enhanced euchromatic state was found when hESCs were exposed to hypoxia followed by 72 hours reoxygenation. This was sustained by HIF-2α which enhanced stemness by binding to an oct-sox cis-regulatory element in the NANOG promoter. Thus, these data have uncovered a novel role of HIF-2α as a direct regulator of key transcription factors controlling self-renewal in hESCs but also in the induction of epigenetic modifications ensuring a euchromatic conformation which enhances the regenerative potential of these cells.
HLA and T-cell receptor polymorphisms in Belgian multiple sclerosis patients: No evidence for disease association with the T-cell receptor. There are compelling data to indicate that the susceptibility to multiple sclerosis (MS) is inherited, at least in part. Particular HLA genotypes may be associated with MS and recently also polymorphisms in the T-cell receptor (TCR) genes have been reported to correlate with the disease; however, these data have been difficult to confirm. We investigated the TCRA and TCRB chain genes of HLA-typed Belgian CP MS patients employing four DNA restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLPs) detected with TCR constant (TCRAC1, TCRBC2) and variable (TCRBV8, TCRBV11) gene segments. Similar frequencies in patients and controls were observed for all RFLPs studied. Although the HLA DR2 genotype was significantly associated with MS, no interactive effects were seen with MS, DR2, TCRAC1, TCRBC2 and TCRBV alleles. We conclude that, while a clear association with HLA DR2 is observed, little convincing evidence exists for an association of CP MS with RFLPs of the TCRA or TCRB chain genes.
HLA-B27 up-regulation causes accumulation of misfolded heavy chains and correlates with the magnitude of the unfolded protein response in transgenic rats: Implications for the pathogenesis of spondylarthritis-like disease. Objective. HLA-B27 is implicated in the pathogenesis of spondylarthritis (SpA), yet the molecular mechanisms are incompletely defined. HLA-B27 misfolding has been associated with endoplasmic reticulum stress and activation of the unfolded protein response (UPR) in macrophages from HLA-B27/human β2-microglobulin-transgenic (B27-transgenic) rats. This study was performed to assess the mechanisms that drive activation of the HLA-B27-induced UPR and to determine whether splenocytes respond in a similar manner. Methods. Splenocytes were isolated and bone marrow macrophages were derived from B27-transgenic and wild-type rats. Cells were treated for up to 24 hours with cytokines that induce class I major histocompatibility complex expression. HLA-B27 expression and misfolding were assessed by real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, flow cytometry, and immunoblotting. Activation of the UPR was measured by quantifying UPR target gene expression and X-box binding protein 1 messenger RNA (mRNA) splicing. Results. HLA-B27 mRNA up-regulation was accompanied by a dramatic increase in the accumulation of misfolded heavy chains and preceded robust activation of the UPR in macrophages. When macrophages were treated with various cytokines, the magnitude of the UPR correlated strongly with the degree of HLA-B27 up-regulation. In contrast, B27-transgenic splenocytes exhibited only low-level differences in the expression of UPR target genes after exposure to interferon-γ or concanavalin A, which resulted in minimal HLA-B27 up-regulation. Conclusion. These results suggest that HLA-B27-associated activation of the UPR in macrophages is attributable to the accumulation of misfolded heavy chains, and that certain cell types may be more susceptible to the effects of HLA-B27 misfolding. Strategies that eliminate HLA-B27 up-regulation and/or the accumulation of misfolded heavy chains may be useful in evaluating the role of these events in the pathogenesis of SpA.
HMGA2 is regulated by LIN28 and BRCA1 in human placental cells. The chromatin associated transcription factor HMGA2 is a downstream target of let-7 miRNAs and binds to chromatin to regulate gene expression. Inhibition of let-7 miRNAs by RNA-binding proteins LIN28A and LIN28B is necessary during early embryogenesis to ensure stable expression of HMGA2. In addition to LIN28, HMGA2 is regulated by a BRCA1/ZNF350/CtIP repressor complex. In normal tissues, the BRCA1/ZNF350/CtIP complex binds to the HMGA2 promoter to prevent transcription. However, in many cancers the oncomiR miR-182 targets BRCA1, preventing BRCA1 translation and allowing for increased HMGA2. Little is known about the regulation of HMGA2 during early placental development; therefore, we hypothesized that both LIN28 and BRCA1 can regulate HMGA2 in placental cells. Using siRNA and CRISPR gene editing techniques, we found that knockdowns of both LIN28A and LIN28B increase HMGA2 levels in ACH-3P cells. These cells also demonstrated deficiencies in cell differentiation, seemingly differentiating solely towards the syncytiotrophoblast sublineage, secreting higher amounts of hCG, and displaying upregulated ERVW-1. Additionally, we found that a knockout of both LIN28A and LIN28B caused a significant increase of miR-182 and a decrease in BRCA1 allowing HMGA2 mRNA levels to increase and protein levels to remain the same. Using chromatin immunoprecipitation, we saw binding of the BRCA1 repressor complex to HMGA2. We also saw a decrease in binding to HMGA2’s promoter in the LIN28A/B knockout cells. These findings suggest a novel role for BRCA1 during early human placental development.
HOXA10 facilitates SHP-1-catalyzed dephosphorylation of p38 MAPK/STAT3 to repress hepatitis B virus replication by a feedback regulatory mechanism. Hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection is the leading cause of chronic hepatitis B (CHB), liver cirrhosis (LC), and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). This study reveals a distinct mechanism underlying the regulation of HBV replication. HBV activates homeobox A10 (HoxA10) in human hepatocytes, leukocytes, peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), HepG2-NTCP cells, leukocytes isolated from CHB patients, and HBV-associated HCC tissues. HoxA10 in turn represses HBV replication in human hepatocytes, HepG2-NTCP cells, and BALB/c mice. Interestingly, we show that during early HBV infection, p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) were activated to facilitate HBV replication; however, during late HBV infection, HoxA10 was induced to attenuate HBV replication. Detailed studies reveal that HoxA10 binds to p38 MAPK, recruits SH2-containing protein tyrosine phosphatase 1 (SHP-1) to facilitate SHP-1 in catalyzing dephosphorylation of p38 MAPK/STAT3, and thereby attenuates p38 MAPK/STAT3 activation and HBV replication. Furthermore, HoxA10 binds to the HBV enhancer element I (EnhI)/X promoter, competes with STAT3 for binding of the promoter, and thereby represses HBV transcription. Taken together, these results show that HoxA10 attenuates HBV replication through repressing the p38 MAPK/STAT3 pathway by two approaches: HoxA10 interacts with p38 MAPK and recruits SHP-1 to repress HBV replication, and HoxA10 binds to the EnhI/X promoter and competes with STAT3 to attenuate HBV transcription. Thus, the function of HoxA10 is similar to the action of interferon (IFN) in terms of inhibition of HBV infection; however, the mechanism of HoxA10-mediated repression of HBV replication is different from the mechanism underlying IFN-induced inhibition of HBV infection. IMPORTANCE Two billion people have been infected with HBV worldwide; about 240 million infected patients developed chronic hepatitis B (CHB), and 650,000 die each year from liver cirrhosis (LC) or hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). This work elucidates a mechanism underlying the control of HBV replication. HBV infection activates HoxA10, a regulator of cell differentiation and cancer progression, in human cells and patients with CHB and HCC. HoxA10 subsequently inhibits HBV replication in human tissue culture cells and mice. Additionally, HoxA10 interacts with p38 MAPK to repress the activation of p38 MAPK and STAT3 and recruits and facilitates SHP-1 to catalyze the dephosphorylation of p38 MAPK and STAT3. Moreover, HoxA10 competes with STAT3 for binding of the HBV X promoter to repress HBV transcription. Thus, this work reveals a negative regulatory mechanism underlying the control of HBV replication and provides new insights into the development of potential agents to control HBV infection.
HSF1-TPR interaction facilitates export of stress-induced HSP70 mRNA. Stress conditions inhibit mRNA export, but mRNA sencoding heat shock proteins continue to be efficiently exported from the nucleus during stress. How HSP mRNAs bypass this stress-associated export inhibition was not known. Here, we show that HSF1, the transcription factor that binds HSP promoters after stress to induce their transcription, interacts with the nuclear pore-associating TPR protein in a stress-responsive manner. TPR is brought into proximity of the HSP70 promoter after stress and preferentially associates with mRNAs transcribed from this promoter. Disruption of the HSF1-TPR interaction inhibits the export of mRNAs expressed from the HSP70 promoter, both endogenous HSP70 mRNA and a luciferase reporter mRNA. These results suggest that HSP mRNA export escapes stress inhibition via HSF1-mediated recruitment of the nuclear pore-associating protein TPR to HSP genes, thereby functionally connecting the first and last nuclear steps of the gene expression pathway, transcription and mRNA export.
Helios, and not FoxP3, is the marker of activated Tregs expressing GARP/LAP. Regulatory T cells (Tregs) are key players of immune regulation/dysregulation both in physiological and pathophysiological settings. Despite significant advances in understanding Treg function, there is still a pressing need to define reliable and specific markers that can distinguish different Treg subpopulations. Herein we show for the first time that markers of activated Tregs [latency associated peptide (LAP) and glycoprotein A repetitions predominant (GARP, or LRRC32)] are expressed on CD4+FoxP3- T cells expressing Helios (FoxP3-Helios+) in the steady state. Following TCR activation, GARP/LAP are up-regulated on CD4+Helios+ T cells regardless of FoxP3 expression (FoxP3+/-Helios+). We show that CD4+GARP+/-LAP+ Tregs make IL-10 immunosuppressive cytokine but not IFN-γ effector cytokine. Further characterization of FoxP3/Helios subpopulations showed that FoxP3+Helios+ Tregs proliferate in vitro significantly less than FoxP3+Helios- Tregs upon TCR stimulation. Unlike FoxP3+Helios- Tregs, FoxP3+Helios+ Tregs secrete IL-10 but not IFN-γ or IL-2, confirming they are bona fide Tregs with immunosuppressive characteristics. Taken together, Helios, and not FoxP3, is the marker of activated Tregs expressing GARP/LAP, and FoxP3+Helios+ Tregs have more suppressive characteristics, compared with FoxP3+Helios- Tregs. Our work implies that therapeutic modalities for treating autoimmune and inflammatory diseases, allergies and graft rejection should be designed to induce and/or expand FoxP3+Helios+ Tregs, while therapies against cancers or infectious diseases should avoid such expansion/induction.
Hematopoietic-Prostaglandin D2 synthase through PGD2 production is involved in the adult ovarian physiology. Background: The prostaglandin D2 (PGD2) pathway is involved in numerous biological processes and while it has been identified as a partner of the embryonic sex determining male cascade, the roles it plays in ovarian function remain largely unknown. PGD2 is secreted by two prostaglandin D synthases (Pgds); the male-specific lipocalin (L)-Pgds and the hematopoietic (H)-Pgds. Methods. To study the expression of the Pgds in the adult ovary, in situ hybridization were performed. Then, to evaluate the role of H-Pgds produced PGD2 in the ovarian physiology, adult female mice were treated with HQL-79, a specific inhibitor of H-Pgds enzymatic activity. The effects on expression of the gonadotrophin receptors FshR and LhR, steroidogenic genes Cyp11A1, StAR and on circulating progesterone and estradiol, were observed. Results: We report the localization of H-Pgds mRNA in the granulosa cells from the primary to pre-ovulatory follicles. We provide evidence of the role of H-Pgds-produced PGD2 signaling in the FSH signaling through increased FshR and LhR receptor expression. This leads to the activation of steroidogenic Cyp11A1 and StAR gene expression leading to progesterone secretion, independently on other prostanoid-synthetizing mechanisms. We also identify a role whereby H-Pgds-produced PGD2 is involved in the regulation of follicular growth through inhibition of granulosa cell proliferation in the growing follicles. Conclusions: Together, these results show PGD2 signaling to interfere with FSH action within granulosa cells, thus identifying an important and unappreciated role for PGD2 signaling in modulating the balance of proliferation, differentiation and steroidogenic activity of granulosa cells.
Hemogen/BRG1 cooperativity modulates promoter and enhancer activation during erythropoiesis. Hemogen is a hematopoietic tissue–specific gene that regulates the proliferation and differentiation of hematopoietic cells; however, the mechanism underlying its function in erythropoiesis is unknown. We found that depletion of hemogen in human CD34+ erythroid progenitor cells and HUDEP2 cells significantly reduced the expression of genes associated with heme and hemoglobin synthesis, supporting a positive role for hemogen in erythroid maturation. In human K562 cells, hemogen antagonized the occupancy of corepressors nucleosome remodeling and histone deacetylase (NuRD) complex and facilitated LDB1 complex–mediated chromatin looping. Hemogen recruited SWI/SNF complex ATPase BRG1 as a coactivator to regulate nucleosome accessibility and H3K27ac enrichment for promoter and enhancer activity. To determine whether hemogen/BRG1 cooperativity is conserved in mammalian systems, we generated hemogen-knockout/knockin mice and investigated hemogen/BRG1 function in murine erythropoiesis. Loss of hemogen in embryonic days 12.5 to 16.5 fetal liver cells impeded erythroid differentiation through reducing the production of mature erythroblasts. Chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing in wild-type and hemogen-knockout animals revealed that BRG1 is largely dependent on hemogen to regulate chromatin accessibility at erythroid gene promoters and enhancers. In summary, the hemogen/BRG1 interaction in mammals is essential for fetal erythroid maturation and hemoglobin production through its active role in promoter and enhancer activity and chromatin organization.
Hepatocyte nuclear factor 4α controls iron metabolism and regulates transferrin receptor 2 in mouse liver. Iron is an essential element in biological systems, but excess iron promotes the formation of reactive oxygen species, resulting in cellular toxicity. Several iron-related genes are highly expressed in the liver, a tissue in which hepatocyte nuclear factor 4α (HNF4α) plays a critical role in controlling gene expression. Therefore, the role of hepatic HNF4α in iron homeostasis was examined using liver-specific HNF4α-null mice (Hnf4aΔH mice). Hnf4aΔH mice exhibit hypoferremia and a significant change in hepatic gene expression. Notably, the expression of transferrin receptor 2 (Tfr2) mRNA was markedly decreased in Hnf4aΔH mice. Promoter analysis of the Tfr2 gene showed that the basal promoter was located at a GC-rich region upstream of the transcription start site, a region that can be transactivated in an HNF4α-independent manner. HNF4α-dependent expression of Tfr2 was mediated by a proximal promoter containing two HNF4α-binding sites located between the transcription start site and the translation start site. Both the GC-rich region of the basal promoter and the HNF4α-binding sites were required for maximal transactivation. Moreover, siRNA knockdown of HNF4α suppressed TFR2 expression in human HCC cells. These results suggest that Tfr2 is a novel target gene for HNF4α, and hepatic HNF4α plays a critical role in iron homeostasis.
High expression of TROP2 is correlated with poor prognosis of oral squamous cell carcinoma. Human trophoblastic cell-surface antigen 2 (TROP2) is a cell surface glycoprotein that exhibits high expression in various carcinomas but low or no expression in normal tissues. High TROP2 expression plays an important role in promoting tumor development and aggressiveness, which is correlated with reduced patient survival. However, there are few studies regarding TROP2 in relation to both oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) and oral potentially malignant lesions. The expression of TROP2 protein and mRNA was investigated in OSCC tissues, oral potentially malignant lesion tissues, and normal oral tissues using immunohistochemistry and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). The association between TROP2 expression and clinicopathological characteristics of OSCC was also analyzed, and the prognostic value of TROP2 was evaluated. The expression of TROP2 protein and mRNA were both higher in OSCC tissues than in oral potentially malignant lesion tissues or normal oral tissues. Positive TROP2 expression was related to differentiation, lymph node metastases, TNM stage, perineural infiltration, and vascular invasion. Poor overall survival was associated with high TROP2 expression and other factors associated with poor overall survival including poor differentiation, lymph node metastasis, TNM stage, vascular invasion, and perineural invasion in univariate analyses. TROP2 expression as well as TNM stage and vascular invasion were independent prognostic factors associated with the overall survival of OSCC patients in multivariate analyses. In summary, High TROP2 expression is associated with poor overall survival and serves as an independent prognostic factor in OSCC. The results suggest that TROP2 expression could be an effective prognostic biomarker for OSCC.
High level expression of the major transactivation domain of the human glucocorticoid receptor in yeast cells inhibits endogenous gene expression and cell growth. A number of alternative mechanisms by which the DNA-bound glucocorticoid receptor transactivates gene expression have been suggested. The fact that the glucocorticoid and other steroid hormone receptors function in yeast suggests that at least one of these mechanisms has been conserved throughout evolution. Here we show that overexpression of one of the glucocorticoid receptor transactivation domains (τ1) in yeast causes a reduction in expression of a yeast reporter gene, followed by a severe reduction in the growth rate of the yeast cells. This is analogous to the phenomenon of squelching, first described for the GAL4 protein, and suggests that the τ1, domain of the glucocorticoid receptor functions by contacting limiting transcription factors needed for efficient gene activity. A similar level of squelching was seen after removal of the up-stream activation sequences from the yeast reporter gene, suggesting that the squelching interactions were with transcription factors needed for the activity of a basal promoter.
High-mobility group box protein 1 and its signalling receptors in human preterm and term cervix. The objective of this study was to identify possible changes in mRNA and protein expression of high-mobility group box protein 1 (HMGB1) and its suggested receptors - receptor for advanced glycation end-products (RAGE) and Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) and TLR4 - in human cervix during pregnancy, term and preterm labor. Cervical biopsies were taken from 58 women: 20 at preterm labor, 24 at term labor, 10 at term not in labor and 4 from non-pregnant women. Real-time RT-PCR was used to quantify mRNA expression, and immunohistochemistry and ELISA for protein analysis. HMGB1, RAGE, TLR2 and TLR4 proteins were localized and their mRNA expression was detected in the cervix. There was more extranuclear HMGB1 in the cervical epithelium and stroma in preterm and term labor compared to the term not in labor. TLR2 mRNA expression was upregulated 5-fold in term labor and 3-fold in preterm labor compared to term not in labor and non-pregnant controls. There was lower expression of TLR2 and TLR4 mRNAs in preterm labor compared to term. Lower mRNA expression of HMGB1 was found in the subgroup with preterm premature rupture of membranes than in the rest of the preterm group, where levels were significantly higher than in term labor. In conclusion, extranuclear expression of HMGB1 during labor suggests a possible role of HMGB1 during the process of cervical ripening. Changes in expression of mRNAs encoding HMGB1, TLR2 and TLR4 in preterm labor suggest differences in the mechanism of cervical ripening at preterm and term delivery.
Histone H3 lysine K4 methylation and its role in learning and memory. Epigenetic modifications such as histone methylation permit change in chromatin structure without accompanying change in the underlying genomic sequence. A number of studies in animal models have shown that dysregulation of various components of the epigenetic machinery causes cognitive deficits at the behavioral level, suggesting that proper epigenetic control is necessary for the fundamental processes of learning and memory. Histone H3 lysine K4 (H3K4) methylation comprises one component of such epigenetic control, and global levels of this mark are increased in the hippocampus during memory formation. Modifiers of H3K4 methylation are needed for memory formation, shown through animal studies, and many of the same modifiers are mutated in human cognitive diseases. Indeed, all of the known H3K4 methyltransferases and four of the known six H3K4 demethylases have been associated with impaired cognition in a neurologic or psychiatric disorder. Cognitive impairment in such patients often manifests as intellectual disability, consistent with a role for H3K4 methylation in learning and memory. As a modification quintessentially, but not exclusively, associated with transcriptional activity, H3K4 methylation provides unique insights into the regulatory complexity of writing, reading, and erasing chromatin marks within an activated neuron. The following review will discuss H3K4 methylation and connect it to transcriptional events required for learning and memory within the developed nervous system. This will include an initial discussion of the most recent advances in the developing methodology to analyze H3K4 methylation, namely mass spectrometry and deep sequencing, as well as how these methods can be applied to more deeply understand the biology of this mark in the brain. We will then introduce the core enzymatic machinery mediating addition and removal of H3K4 methylation marks and the resulting epigenetic signatures of these marks throughout the neuronal genome. We next foray into the brain, discussing changes in H3K4 methylation marks within the hippocampus during memory formation and retrieval, as well as the behavioral correlates of H3K4 methyltransferase deficiency in this region. Finally, we discuss the human cognitive diseases connected to each H3K4 methylation modulator and summarize advances in developing drugs to target them.
Histone deacetylase activity is required to recruit RNA polymerase II to the promoters of selected interferon-stimulated early response genes. Posttranslational modification of histones by acetylation, methylation or phosphorylation has emerged as a major mechanism to modify chromatin structure and gene expression. In most cases, transcriptionally active genes display enhanced binding of acetylated histones in their promoters. Activation of histone acetyltransferases or inhibition of histone deacetylases (HDACs) allows chromatin to assume a more open state permitting transcriptional activators to form a preinitiation complex. To our surprise, treatment of cells with the HDAC inhibitor, trichostatin A (TSA), inhibits selected interferon β (IFNβ)-stimulated immediate early genes that are activated by the transcription factors Stat1 and Stat2. However, IFNβ activation of IRF-1, which requires tyrosine-phosphorylated Stat1 homodimers binding to a γ interferon activation sequence in its promoter is not affected by TSA. Exposure of cells to TSA does not alter tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat1 or Stat2. TSA treatment of cells also does not alter the binding of Stat 1 or Stat2 to the endogenous ISG54 promoter. However, IFNβ-stimulated binding of RNA polymerase II to the ISG54 promoter is prevented by TSA. Interestingly, ectopic expression of IRF9 reverses the inhibitory actions of TSA, suggesting that IRF9 functions to recruit RNA polymerase II to the promoter of interferon-stimulated genes. This particular function of IRF9 requires the activity of histone deacetylases.
Histone deacetylase inhibitors enhance Candida albicans sensitivity to azoles and related antifungals: Correlation with reduction in CDR and ERG upregulation. Histone acetylation and deacetylation play important roles in eukaryotic gene regulation. Several histone deacetylase (HDA) inhibitors have been characterized, including trichostatin A (TSA), apicidin, and sodium butyrate. We tested their effects on Candida albicans in vitro growth, heat sensitivity, and germ tube formation; minimal effects were observed. However, there was a dramatic effect of TSA on C. albicans sensitivity to the azoles fluconazole, itraconazole, and miconazole. Similar effects were observed with other HDA inhibitors and with the antifungals terbinafine and fenpropimorph, which target, as do azoles, enzymes in the ergosterol biosynthetic pathway. In contrast, HDA inhibitors had minimal effect on the activities of amphotericin B, flucytosine, and echinocandin, which have unrelated targets. Specifically, addition of 3 μg of TSA/ml lowered the itraconazole MIC for five susceptible C. albicans isolates an average of 2.7-fold at 24 h, but this increased to >200-fold at 48 h. Thus, the primary effect of TSA was a reduction in azole trailing. TSA also enhanced itraconazole activity against Candida parapsilosis and Candida tropicalis but had no effect with four less related yeast species. To examine the molecular basis for these effects, we studied expression of ERG genes (encoding azole and terbinafine targets) and CDR/MDR1 genes (encoding multidrug transporters) in C. albicans cells treated with fluconazole or terbinafine with or without TSA. Both antifungals induced to various levels the expression of ERG1, ERG11, CDR1, and CDR2; addition of TSA reduced this upregulation 50 to 100%. This most likely explains the inhibition of azole and terbinafine trailing by TSA and, more generally, provides evidence that trailing is mediated by upregulation of target enzymes and multidrug transporters.
Histone deacetylases suppress cgg repeat-induced neurodegeneration via transcriptional silencing in models of Fragile X Tremor Ataxia Syndrome. Fragile X Tremor Ataxia Syndrome (FXTAS) is a common inherited neurodegenerative disorder caused by expansion of a CGG trinucleotide repeat in the 59UTR of the fragile X syndrome (FXS) gene, FMR1. The expanded CGG repeat is thought to induce toxicity as RNA, and in FXTAS patients mRNA levels for FMR1 are markedly increased. Despite the critical role of FMR1 mRNA in disease pathogenesis, the basis for the increase in FMR1 mRNA expression is unknown. Here we show that overexpressing any of three histone deacetylases (HDACs 3, 6, or 11) suppresses CGG repeat-induced neurodegeneration in a Drosophila model of FXTAS. This suppression results from selective transcriptional repression of the CGG repeat-containing transgene. These findings led us to evaluate the acetylation state of histones at the human FMR1 locus. In patient-derived lymphoblasts and fibroblasts, we determined by chromatin immunoprecipitation that there is increased acetylation of histones at the FMR1 locus in pre-mutation carriers compared to control or FXS derived cell lines. These epigenetic changes correlate with elevated FMR1 mRNA expression in pre-mutation cell lines. Consistent with this finding, histone acetyltransferase (HAT) inhibitors repress FMR1 mRNA expression to control levels in pre-mutation carrier cell lines and extend lifespan in CGG repeat-expressing Drosophila. These findings support a disease model whereby the CGG repeat expansion in FXTAS promotes chromatin remodeling in cis, which in turn increases expression of the toxic FMR1 mRNA. Moreover, these results provide proof of principle that HAT inhibitors or HDAC activators might be used to selectively repress transcription at the FMR1 locus.
Histone dynamics on the interleukin-2 gene in response to T-cell activation. Several models have been proposed for the mechanism of chromatin remodelling across the promoters of inducible genes in mammalian cells. The most commonly held model is one of cooccupation where histone proteins are modified by acetylation or phosphorylation and nucleosomes are remodelled, allowing the assembly of transcription factor complexes. Using chromatin immunoprecipitation, we observed an apparent decrease of histone acetylation and phosphorylation signals at the proximal promoter region of the inducible interleukin-2 and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor genes in response to T-cell activation. We showed that this apparent decrease was due to a loss of histone H3 and H4 proteins corresponding to a decrease in nucleosome occupation of the promoter. This histone loss is reversible; it is dependent on the continual presence of appropriate activating signals and transcription factors and is not dependent on the acetylation status of the histone proteins. These data show for the first time that histone proteins are lost from a mammalian promoter upon activation of transcription and support a model of activation-dependent disassembly and reassembly of nucleosomes.
Histone editing elucidates the functional roles of H3K27 methylation and acetylation in mammals. Posttranslational modifications of histones (PTMs) are associated with specific chromatin and gene expression states1,2. Although studies in Drosophila melanogaster have revealed phenotypic associations between chromatin-modifying enzymes and their histone substrates, comparable studies in mammalian models do not exist3–5. Here, we use CRISPR base editing in mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs) to address the regulatory role of lysine 27 of histone H3 (H3K27), a substrate for Polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2)-mediated methylation and CBP/EP300-mediated acetylation6,7. By generating pan-H3K27R (pK27R) mutant mESCs, where all 28 alleles of H3.1, H3.2 and H3.3 have been mutated, we demonstrate similarity in transcription patterns of genes and differentiation to PRC2-null mutants. Moreover, H3K27 acetylation is not essential for gene derepression linked to loss of H3K27 methylation, or de novo activation of genes during cell-fate transition to epiblast-like cells (EpiLCs). In conclusion, our results show that H3K27 is an essential substrate for PRC2 in mESCs, whereas other PTMs in addition to H3K27 acetylation are likely involved in mediating CBP/EP300 function. Our work demonstrates the feasibility of large-scale multicopy gene editing to interrogate histone PTM function in mammalian cells.
Histone methylation at gene promoters is associated with developmental regulation and region-specific expression of ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptors in human brain. Glutamatergic signaling is regulated, in part, through differential expression of NMDA and AMPA/KA channel subunits and G protein-coupled metabotropic receptors. In human brain, region-specific expression patterns of glutamate receptor genes are maintained over the course of decades, suggesting a role for molecular mechanisms involved in longterm regulation of transcription, including methylation of lysine residues at histone N-terrninal tails. Using a native chromatin immunoprecipitation assay, we studied histone methylation marks at proximal promoters of 16 ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptor genes (GRIN1,2A-D; GRIA1,3,4; GRIK2,4,5; GRM1,3,4,6,7) in cerebellar cortex collected across a wide age range from midgestation to 90 years old. Levels of di- and trimethylated histone H3-lysine 4, which are associated with open chromatin and transcription, showed significant differences between promoters and a robust correlation with corresponding mRNA levels in immature and mature cerebellar cortex. In contrast, levels of trimethylated H3-lysine 27 and H4-lysine 20, two histone modifications defining silenced or condensed chromatin, did not correlate with transcription but were up-regulated overall in adult cerebellum. Furthermore, differential gene expression patterns in prefrontal and cerebellar cortex were reflected by similar diffrences in H3-lysine 4 methylation at promoters. Together, these findings suggest that histone lysine methylation at gene promoters is involved in developmental regulation and maintenance of region-specific expression patterns of ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptors. The association of a specific epigenetic mark, H3-(methyl)-lysine 4, with the molecular architecture of glutamatergic signaling in human brain has potential implications for schizophrenia and other disorders with altered glutamate receptor function.
Histone methylation levels correlate with TGFBIp and extracellular matrix gene expression in normal and granular corneal dystrophy type 2 corneal fibroblasts. Background: TGFβ1-induced expression of transforming growth factor β-induced protein (TGFBIp) and extracellular matrix (ECM) genes plays a major role in the development of granular corneal dystrophy type 2 (GCD2: also called Avellino corneal dystrophy). Although some key transcription factors are known, the epigenetic mechanisms modulating TGFBIp and ECM expression remain unclear. We examined the role of chromatin markers such as histone H3 lysine methylation (H3Kme) in TGFβ1-induced TGFBIp and ECM gene expression in normal and GCD2-derived human corneal fibroblasts. Methods: Wild-type (n = 3), GCD2-heterozygous (n = 1), and GCD2-homozygous (n = 3) primary human corneal fibroblasts were harvested from human donors and patients prepared. Microarray and gene-expression profiling, Chromatin immunoprecipitation microarray analysis, and Methylated DNA isolation assay-assisted CpG microarrays was performed in Wild-type and GCD2-homozygous human cells. Results: Transcription and extracellular-secretion levels of TGFBIp were high in normal cells compared with those in GCD2-derived cells and were related to H3K4me3 levels but not to DNA methylation over the TGFBI locus. TGFβ1 increased the expression of TGFBIp and the ECM-associated genes connective tissue growth factor, collagen-α2[I], and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 in normal corneal fibroblasts. Increased levels of gene-activating markers (H3K4me1/3) and decreased levels of repressive markers (H3K27me3) at the promoters of those gene accompanied the changes in expression. TGFβ1 also increased recruitment of the H3K4 methyltransferase MLL1 and of SET7/9 and also the binding of Smad3 to the promoters. Knockdown of both MLL1 and SET7/9 significantly blocked the TGFβ1-induced gene expression and inhibited TGFβ1-induced changes in promoter H3K4me1/3 levels. Those effects were very weak, however, in GCD2-derived corneal fibroblasts. Conclusions: Taken together, the results show the functional role of H3K4me in TGFβ1-mediated TGFBIp and ECM gene expression in corneal fibroblasts. Pharmacologic and other therapies that regulate these modifications could have potential cornea-protective effects for granular corneal dystrophy.
Histone methyltransferase enhancer of zeste homolog 2-mediated abca1 promoter DNA methylation contributes to the progression of atherosclerosis. ATP-binding cassette transporter A1 (ABCA1) plays a critical role in maintaining cellular cholesterol homeostasis. The purpose of this study is to identify the molecular mechanism (s) underlying ABCA1 epigenetic modification and determine its potential impact on ABCA1 expression in macrophage-derived foam cell formation and atherosclerosis development. DNA methylation induced foam cell formation from macrophages and promoted atherosclerosis in apolipoprotein E-deficient (apoE-/- ) mice. Bioinformatics analyses revealed a large CpG island (CGI) located in the promoter region of ABCA1. Histone methyltransferase enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (EZH2) downregulated ABCA1 mRNA and protein expression in THP-1 and RAW264.7 macrophage-derived foam cells. Pharmacological inhibition of DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1) with 5-Aza-dC or knockdown of DNMT1 prevented the downregulation of macrophage ABCA1 expression, suggesting a role of DNA methylation in ABCA1 expression. Polycomb protein EZH2 induced DNMT1 expression and methyl-CpG-binding protein-2 (MeCP2) recruitment, and stimulated the binding of DNMT1 and MeCP2 to ABCA1 promoter, thereby promoting ABCA1 gene DNA methylation and atherosclerosis. Knockdown of DNMT1 inhibited EZH2-induced downregulation of ABCA1 in macrophages. Conversely, EZH2 overexpression stimulated DNMT1-induced ABCA1 gene promoter methylation and atherosclerosis. EZH2-induced downregulation of ABCA1 gene expression promotes foam cell formation and the development of atherosclerosis by DNA methylation of ABCA1 gene promoter.
How transcription factors identify regulatory sites in genomic sequence. Binding of transcription factors to functional sites is a fundamental step in transcriptional regulation. In this chapter, we discuss how transcription factors are thought to achieve specificity to their functional targets, despite their typically low concentrations and degenerate binding specificities, and the fact that in large genomes their functional binding sites must compete with their widespread alternative binding sites. We highlight the importance of the chromatin structure context of the binding sites in this process, and its dependency on the genomic DNA sequence.
HuR keeps interferon-β mRNA stable. The expression of interferon (IFN) β is highly induced in immune and nonimmune cells in response to virus infection. This upregulation is mediated at both transcriptional and posttranscriptional levels. Whereas the signaling pathways triggered by innate virus receptors leading to transcription factor activation have been extensively studied, the mechanisms by which IFN-β mRNA stability is posttranscriptionally controlled are not fully understood. In this issue of the European Journal of Immunology, Herdy et al. [Eur. J. Immunol. 2015 45:1500-1511] show that a human RNA-binding protein, embryonic lethal, abnormal vision, drosophila-like 1 (ELAVL1)/Hu antigen R (HuR), strongly associates with IFN-β mRNA via AU-rich sequences present in its 3′ untranslated region in various human cell lines. The authors show that ELAVL1/HuR is required for the stabilization of IFN-β mRNA, and suppression of ELAVL1/HuR by its inhibitor MS-444 leads to impaired expression of IFN-β in response to viral dsRNA treatment. Thus, this study uncovers a novel mechanism of posttranscriptional IFN-β mRNA regulation in response to virus infection, through IFN-β stabilization by ELAVL1/HuR. Future studies are expected to identify further regulatory mechanisms of IFN-β stabilization and destabilization in the course of antiviral responses.
Human ALKBH7 is required for alkylation and oxidation-induced programmed necrosis. Programmed necrosis has emerged as a crucial modulator of cell death in response to several forms of cellular stress. In one form of programmed necrotic cell death, induced by cytotoxic alkylating agents, hyperactivation of poly-ADP-ribose polymerase (PARP) leads to cellular NAD and ATP depletion, mitochondrial dysfunction, reactive oxygen species formation, and ensuing cell death. Here, we show that the protein encoded by the human AlkB homolog 7 (ALKBH7) gene plays a pivotal role in DNA-damaging agent-induced programmed necrosis by triggering the collapse of mitochondrial membrane potential and large-scale loss of mitochondrial function that lead to energy depletion and cellular demise. Depletion of ALKBH7 suppresses necrotic cell death induced by numerous alkylating and oxidizing agents while having no effect on apoptotic cell death. Like wild-type cells, ALKBH7-depleted cells undergo PARP hyperactivation and NAD depletion after severe DNA damage but, unlike wild-type cells, exhibit rapid recovery of intracellular NAD and ATP levels. Consistent with the recovery of cellular bioenergetics, ALKBH7-depleted cells maintain their mitochondrial membrane potential, plasma membrane integrity, and viability. Our results uncover a novel role for a mammalian AlkB homolog in programmed necrosis, presenting a new target for therapeutic intervention in cancer cells that are resistant to apoptotic cell death.
Human ATAC is a GCN5/PCAF-containing acetylase complex with a novel NC2-like histone fold module that interacts with the TATA-binding protein. Eukaryotic GCN5 acetyltransferases influence diverse biological processes by acetylating histones and non-histone proteins and regulating chromatin and gene-specific transcription as part of multiprotein complexes. In lower eukaryotes and invertebrates, these complexes include the yeast ADA complex that is still incompletely understood; the SAGA (Spt-Ada-Gcn5 acetylase) complexes from yeast to Drosophila that are mostly coactivators; and the ATAC (Ada Two-A containing) complex, only known in Drosophila and still poorly characterized. In contrast, vertebrate organisms, express two paralogous GCN5-like acetyltransferases (GCN5 and PCAF), which have been found so far only in SAGA-type complexes referred to hereafter as the STAGA (SPT3-TAF9-GCN5/PCAF acetylase) complexes. We now report the purification and characterization of vertebrate (human) ATAC-type complexes and identify novel components of STAGA. We show that human ATAC complexes incorporate in addition to GCN5 or PCAF (GCN5/PCAF), other epigenetic coregulators (ADA2-A, ADA3, STAF36, and WDR5), cofactors of chromatin assembly/remodeling and DNA replication machineries (POLE3/CHRAC17 and POLE4), the stress- and TGFβ-activated protein kinase (TAK1/MAP3K7) and MAP3-kinase regulator (MBIP), additional cofactors of unknown function, and a novel YEATS2-NC2β histone fold module that interacts with the TATA-binding protein (TBP) and negatively regulates transcription when recruited to a promoter. We further identify the p38 kinase-interacting protein (p38IP/FAM48A) as a novel component of STAGA with distant similarity to yeast Spt20. These results suggest that vertebrate ATAC-type and STAGA-type complexes link specific extracellular signals to modification of chromatin structure and regulation of the basal transcription machinery.
Human Dbf4/ASK promoter is activated through the Sp1 and MluI cell-cycle box (MCB) transcription elements. Dbf4 is the regulatory subunit of Cdc7 kinase, which is essential for entry into and traversing through S phase. The level of Dbf4, which is critical for the activation of Cdc7, is regulated by transcription and protein degradation. To gain a better understanding as to how the transcription of human Dbf4 (HuDbf4) is regulated, we have cloned and characterized its promoter. We found that HuDbf4 core promoter is localized within -211 to -285 of the translation start-codon. This 75 bp DNA segment contains, among others, a putative MluI Cell-cycle Box (MCB). A point mutation within the MCB dramatically reduced the promoter activity. This is the first example that an MCB element plays an essential role in the activation of a core promoter in mammalian cells. The auxiliary elements required for the full promoter activity are present within 162-bp upstream from the core promoter (i.e., -286/-447). A point mutation within the Sp1 element at -353/-361 resulted in a decrease of promoter activity to the basal level, while the deletion of the putative HES-1 at -326/-331 dramatically increased the promoter activity. Taken together, our data suggests that the MCB element is essential for the core promoter activation, while the Sp1 positive regulator and the HES-1 repressor coordinately determine the efficiency of the HuDbf4 promoter. We have also found: (i) that the major transcription initiations occur at -220, -235 and -245; (ii) that HuDbf4 gene consists of 12 exons, which spread over a 33-kb region.
Human IFN- immunity to mycobacteria is governed by both IL-12 and IL-23. Hundreds of patients with autosomal recessive, complete IL-12p40 or IL-12R1 deficiency have been diagnosed over the last 20 years. They typically suffer from invasive mycobacteriosis and, occasionally, from mucocutaneous candidiasis. Susceptibility to these infections is thought to be due to impairments of IL-12–dependent IFN- immunity and IL-23–dependent IL-17A/IL-17F immunity, respectively. We report here patients with autosomal recessive, complete IL-12R2 or IL-23R deficiency, lacking responses to IL-12 or IL-23 only, all of whom, unexpectedly, display mycobacteriosis without candidiasis. We show that T, T, B, NK, ILC1, and ILC2 cells from healthy donors preferentially produce IFN- in response to IL-12, whereas NKT cells and MAIT cells preferentially produce IFN- in response to IL-23. We also show that the development of IFN-–producing CD4+ T cells, including, in particular, mycobacterium-specific TH1* cells (CD45RA−CCR6+), is dependent on both IL-12 and IL-23. Last, we show that IL12RB1, IL12RB2, and IL23R have similar frequencies of deleterious variants in the general population. The comparative rarity of symptomatic patients with IL-12R2 or IL-23R deficiency, relative to IL-12R1 deficiency, is, therefore, due to lower clinical penetrance. There are fewer symptomatic IL-23R– and IL-12R2–deficient than IL-12R1–deficient patients, not because these genetic disorders are rarer, but because the isolated absence of IL-12 or IL-23 is, in part, compensated by the other cytokine for the production of IFN-, thereby providing some protection against mycobacteria. These experiments of nature show that human IL-12 and IL-23 are both required for optimal IFN-–dependent immunity to mycobacteria, both individually and much more so cooperatively.
Human pituitary adenomas infrequently contain inactivation of retinoblastoma 1 gene and activation of cyclin dependent kinase 4 gene. Components of cyclinD1/cyclin-dependent kinase 4 (CDK4)/p16INK4a/pRb pathway are the frequent target of many tumor types. We examined the role of retinoblastoma susceptibility gene (RB1) and the CDK4 gene in human pituitary tumorigenesis. For the RB1 gene, pRb expression and loss of heterozygosity (LOH) on 13q in pituitary adenomas were analysed. Immunostaining of pRb revealed lack of expression in I of 29 pituitary adenomas. In 4 of 31 pituitary adenomas, allelic imbalances including LOH of RB1 on 13q14 were detected. Three of 4 pituitary adenomas, in which one adenoma lacked pRb expression, had a common LOH region at least from D13S219 on 13q12.3-q13 to D13S265 on 13q31-32. Interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization with a probe of RB1 showed 2 copies of RB1 gene suggesting that mitotic recombination events, not deletion or chromosome loss, led to LOH in the 3 pituitary adenomas analyzed. All 27 exons, intron-exon boundaries, and essential promoter region of RB1 gene were then sequenced in genomic DNA from 4 pituitary adenomas with allelic imbalance on 13q14 including one adenoma without pRb expression and 3 adenomas with pRb expression. Any somatic mutations, insertions, or microdeletions in the RB1 gene were not detected in 4 pituitary adenomas. Methylation sensitive (MS)-polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and bisulfite sequencing analysis revealed hypomethylated status of CpG islands in the promoter region of the RB1 genes of 4 pituitary adenomas. In addition, activating mutations of CDK4 gene, which is a component of cyclin pathway, were not detected in 31 pituitary adenomas. Based on these results, it is concluded that somatic mutations of the RB1 gene or CDK4 gene do not appear to play a major role in pituitary tumorigenesis. This supports the presence of potential tumor suppressor gene(s) on 13q12.3-q13 to 13q31-32 in pituitary adenomas.
Human testis-specific PDHA2 gene: Methylation status of a CpG island in the open reading frame correlates with transcriptional activity. DNA methylation is an important epigenetic modification that has profound roles in gene expression and, in particular, is thought to be crucial for regulation of tissue-specific genes in animal cells. The pivotal E1α subunit of human pyruvate dehydrogenase complex, an essential and rate-limiting enzyme system in energy metabolism, is encoded by two distinct genes: PDHA1 gene, located on chromosome X is expressed in somatic tissues, whereas PDHA2 gene, located on chromosome 4, is exclusively expressed in spermatogenic cells. The objective of this study is to elucidate the role of DNA methylation as an epigenetic mechanism controlling the regulation of PDHA2 gene expression in human tissues, namely its repression in somatic tissues and its activation in testicular germ cells. Genomic DNA was isolated from human somatic tissues (circulating lymphocytes and gastric cells) and from testis, including isolated fractions of haploid and diploid germ cells. After primer design with appropriate software, it was performed the sodium bisulfite PCR sequencing of the PDHA2 promoter and coding regions. Total RNA of the same tissues was isolated, reverse transcribed and PDHA1and PDHA2 transcripts were amplified with specific primers and analysed by agarose gel electrophoresis. The analysis of the genomic sequence of the PDHA2 gene revealed the presence of 61 CpG sites whose distribution matches the criteria for the presence of two CpG islands. Sequence analysis of both CpG islands upon bisulfite treatment displayed several differences, either between islands or among tissues. In particular, the methylation pattern of one of the CpG islands revealed a perfect correlation with transcriptional activity of the PDHA2 gene either in testis or in somatic tissues. Surprisingly, it is the full demethylation of the CpG island located in the coding region that seems to play a crucial role upon PDHA2 gene transcription in testis.
Hydrogen Sulfide Inhibits High Glucose-Induced sFlt-1 Production via Decreasing ADAM17 Expression in 3T3-L1 Adipocytes. Hydrogen sulfide (H2S) has recently been identified as an endogenous gaseous signaling molecule. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of H2S on high glucose-(HG-) induced ADAM17 expression and sFlt-1 production in 3T3-L1 adipocytes. Firstly, we found that HG DMEM upregulated the expression of ADAM17 and production of sFlt-1 in 3T3-L1 adipocytes. Knocking down ADAM17 attenuated the effect of high glucose on sFlt-1 production in adipocytes. HG decreased the expression of CSE and 3-MST, as well as the endogenous H2S production. Furthermore, knocking down CSE and 3-MST significantly increased ADAM17 expression and sFlt-1 production. The addition of exogenous H2S through the administration of sodium hydrosulfide (NaHS) inhibited HG-induced upregulation of ADAM17 expression and sFlt-1 production. In conclusion, decreased expression of CSE and 3-MST and the subsequent decrease in H2S production contribute to high glucose-induced sFlt-1 production via activating ADAM17 in adipocytes. Exogenous H2S donor NaHS has a potential therapeutic value for diabetic vascular complications.
Hypomethylation along with increased H19 expression in placentas from pregnancies complicated with fetal growth restriction. The expression of imprinted genes is regulated by epigenetic modifications, such as DNA methylation. Many imprinted genes are expressed in the placenta and affect nutrient transfer capacity of the placental exchange barrier. The H19 gene is abundantly expressed by the human placenta and is implicated in the pathogenesis of congenital growth disorders such as Beckwith-Wiedemann (BWS) and Silver-Russell (SRS) syndromes. The aim of this study was to investigate the role of DNA methylation on H19 transcription and imprinting, in the pathophysiology of fetal growth restriction (FGR). Thirty one and 17 placentas from FGR-complicated and normal pregnancies were collected, respectively. We studied gene transcription, genotyping and methylation analysis of the AluI H19 on exon 5 polymorphism. Placental expression levels of H19 were significantly increased in the FGR group. The H19 mRNA levels were similar between normal placental samples that demonstrated loss and maintenance of imprinting. Placentas from growth-restricted pregnancies had lower methylation levels compared to normals, in the H19 promoter region. We have demonstrated an increased H19 transcription in the FGR group of placentas. The hypomethylation of the H19 promoters is compatible with the aberrant expression. The association of these two findings is reported for the first time in placental tissues, however, its significance remains unknown. Whether the results of this study represent an adaptation of the placenta to hypoperfusion, or they are part of FGR pathophysiology has to be further investigated.
Hypomethylation of miR-142 promoter and upregulation of microRNAs that target the oxytocin receptor gene in the autism prefrontal cortex. Background: MicroRNAs are small RNA molecules that regulate the translation of protein from gene transcripts and are a powerful mechanism to regulate gene networks. Next-generation sequencing technologies have produced important insights into gene transcription changes that occur in the brain of individuals diagnosed with autism spectrum disorder (asd). However, these technologies have not yet been employed to uncover changes in microRNAs in the brain of individuals diagnosed with asd. Methods: Small RNA next-generation sequencing was performed on RNA extracted from 12 human autism brain samples and 12 controls. Real-time PCR was used to validate a sample of the differentially expressed microRNAs, and bioinformatic analysis determined common pathways of gene targets. MicroRNA expression data was correlated to genome-wide DNA methylation data to determine if there is epigenetic regulation of dysregulated microRNAs in the autism brain. Luciferase assays, real-time PCR, and Western blot analysis were used to determine how dysregulated microRNAs may regulate the expression and translation of an autism-related gene transcript. Results: We determined that miR-142-5p, miR-142-3p, miR-451a, miR-144-3p, and miR-21-5p are overexpressed in the asd brain. Furthermore, the promoter region of the miR-142 gene is hypomethylated in the same brain samples, suggesting that epigenetics plays a role in dysregulation of microRNAs in the brain. Bioinformatic analysis revealed that these microRNAs target genes that are involved in synaptic function. Further bioinformatic analysis, coupled with in vitro luciferase assays, determined that miR-451a and miR-21-5p can target the oxytocin receptor (OXTR) gene. OXTR gene expression is increased in these same brain samples, and there is a positive correlation between miR-21-5p and OXTR expression. However, miR-21-5p expression negatively correlates to production of OXTR protein from the OXTR transcript. Therefore, we suggest that miR-21-5p may attenuate OXTR expression in the human autism brain. Conclusions: Our data suggests that dysregulation of microRNAs may play a biological role in the brain of individuals of autism. In addition, we suggest an interaction between epigenetic mechanisms and microRNA dysregulation in the brain. Overall, this data adds an important link in our understanding of the molecular events that are dysregulated in the brain of individuals diagnosed with autism.
Hypoxia inducible factors regulate the transcription of the sprouty2 gene and expression of the sprouty2 protein. Receptor Tyrosine Kinase (RTK) signaling plays a major role in tumorigenesis and normal development. Sprouty2 (Spry2) attenuates RTK signaling and inhibits processes such as angiogenesis, cell proliferation, migration and survival, which are all upregulated in tumors. Indeed in cancers of the liver, lung, prostate and breast, Spry2 protein levels are markedly decreased correlating with poor patient prognosis and shorter survival. Thus, it is important to understand how expression of Spry2 is regulated. While prior studies have focused on the post-translation regulation of Spry2, very few studies have focused on the transcriptional regulation of SPRY2 gene. Here, we demonstrate that in the human hepatoma cell line, Hep3B, the transcription of SPRY2 is inhibited by the transcription regulating hypoxia inducible factors (HIFs). HIFs are composed of an oxygen regulated alpha subunit (HIF1α or HIF2α) and a beta subunit (HIF1β). Intriguingly, silencing of HIF1α and HIF2α elevates SPRY2 mRNA and protein levels suggesting HIFs reduce the transcription of the SPRY2 promoter. In silico analysis identified ten hypoxia response elements (HREs) in the proximal promoter and first intron of SPRY2. Using chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP), we show that HIF1α/2α bind near the putative HREs in the proximal promoter and intron of SPRY2. Our studies demonstrated that not only is the SPRY2 promoter methylated, but silencing HIF1α/2α reduced the methylation. ChIP assays also showed DNA methyltransferase1 (DNMT1) binding to the proximal promoter and first intron of SPRY2 and silencing HIF1α/2α decreased this association. Additionally, silencing of DNMT1 mimicked the HIF1α/2α silencing-mediated increase in SPRY2 mRNA and protein. While simultaneous silencing of HIF1α/2α and DNMT1 increased SPRY2 mRNA a little more, the increase was not additive suggesting a common mechanism by which DNMT1 and HIF1α/2α regulate SPRY2 transcription. Together these data suggest that the transcription of SPRY2 is inhibited by HIFs, in part, via DNMT1- mediated methylation.
IGF2BP3 May Contributes to Lung Tumorigenesis by Regulating the Alternative Splicing of PKM. RNA binding proteins (RBPs) play a key role in genome regulation. Here we report the post-transcript regulation of IGF2BP3, which belongs to the insulin-like growth factor 2 mRNA binding protein family. We used iRIP-seq and RNA-seq to analyze the transcript regulation and alternative splicing on IGF2BP3 treated with overexpression cells and control. Overexpressed IGF2BP3 has broadly increased genes expression which involved in G-protein coupled receptor signaling pathway, positive regulation of cell proliferation, and signal transduction. IGF2BP3 regulated alternative splicing of multiple genes mainly clustered at response to hypoxia, negative regulation of transcription, and embryonic development. This study first provides alternative splicing analysis on transcription level of IGF2BP3 regulation, which laid the foundation for later research on IGF2BP3 critical functions.
IL-23 Inhibits Melanoma Development by Augmenting DNA repair and modulating T cell subpopulations. In animal models, IL-12 and IL-23 participate in the development of malignant neoplasms of keratinocytes. However, the role of these cytokines in pigmented lesion development and their progression to melanoma has received little attention. IL-12p35, IL-23p19, and IL-12/IL-23p40 knockout mice on a C3H/HeN background, subjected to a melanomagenesis protocol, demonstrated profound differences in susceptibility to nevus initiation, transformation, tumorigenicity, and metastatic potential. IL-23 was found to be essential for melanocyte homeostasis, whereas IL-12 supported nevus development. A direct action of IL-23 on primary melanocytes, shown to be IL-23R+, demonstrated that DNA repair of damaged melanocytes requires IL-23. Furthermore, IL-23 modulated the cutaneous microenvironment by limiting regulatory T cells and IFN-g and inhibiting IL-10 production. Neutralizing Ab to IFN-g, but not IL-17, inhibited nevus development (p < 0.01).
Id3 is a novel regulator of p27kip1 mRNA in early G1 phase and is required for cell-cycle progression. P27kip is a key inhibitory protein of the cell-cycle progression, which is rapidly downregulated in early G1 phase by a post-translational mechanism involving the proteosomal degradation. In this study, using a wounding model that induces cell-cycle entry of human dermal fibroblasts, we demonstrate that p27mRNA is downregulated when cells progress into the G1 phase, and then it returns to its basal level when cells approach the S phase. By using a quantitative polymerase chain reaction screening we identified inhibitors of differentiation (Id3), a bHLH transcriptional repressor, as a candidate mediator accounting for p27 mRNA decrease. Id3 silencing, using an small interfering RNA approach, reversed the injury mediated p27 downregulation demonstrating that Id3 is involved in the transcriptional repression of p27. Reporter gene experiments and a chromatin immunoprecipitation assay showed that Id3 likely exerts its repressive action through ELK1 inhibition. By inhibiting early p27 downregulation, Id3 depletion blocked (i) the G1-phase progression as assessed by the inhibition of pRb phosphorylation and p130 degradation and (ii) the G1/S transition as observed by the inhibition of cyclin A induction, demonstrating that p27 mRNA decrease is required for cell proliferation. Apart from its effect on the early p27 diminution, Id3 appears also involved in the control of the steady-state level of p27 at the G1/S boundary. In conclusion, this study identifies a novel mechanism of p27 regulation which besides p27 protein degradation also implicates a transcriptional mechanism mediated by Id3.
Identification and analysis of the promoter region of the human DHCR24 gene: Involvement of DNA methylation and histone acetylation. Mutations in the DHCR24 gene, which encodes the cholesterol biosynthesis enzyme 3β-hydroxysterol-Δ24 reductase, result in an autosomal recessive disease called desmosterolosis. Further, reduced expression of DHCR24 is found in the temporal cortex of Alzheimer's disease patients. This suggests that variability in the regulatory regions of DHCR24 may contribute to the development of this neurodegenerative disease. In this work, we functionally characterised the proximal fragment of the human DHCR24 gene, for the first time. We show that the transcription of DHCR24 is initiated from a single CpG-rich promoter that is regulated by DNA methylation in some cell types. An activator sequence was also uncovered in the -1203/-665 bp region by reporter gene assays. Furthermore, sodium butyrate (a well-known HDAC inhibitor) increased DHCR24 expression in SH-SY5Y cells by recruiting acetylated core histones H3 and H4 to the enhancer region, as demonstrated by transient transfection and chromatin immunoprecipitation assays. Understanding the regulation of the DHCR24 gene may lead to alternative therapeutic strategies in at least some Alzheimer's patients.
Identification and cloning of an 85-kDa protein homologous to RING3 that is upregulated in proliferating endothelial cells. A central event in angiogenesis is proliferation of blood vessels, which plays a major role in the progression of a number of inflammatory and neoplastic diseases. It is responsible for the switch of endothelial cells from an antiangiogenic to an angiogenic phenotype. To identify novel activated/proliferating-related proteins in human endothelial cells, a subtractive immunization approach was used to elicit a host antibody response against human dermal microvascular endothelial cells (HDMECs) stimulated with a potent angiogenic cytokine such as VPF/VEGF165. In this study, a new mAb, LY9, which is highly specific to VPF/VEGF165-activated HDMECs, was isolated. Stimulation of HDMECs by VPF/VEGF165 or basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) resulted in a dose-dependent and time-dependent increase in the binding of LY9. On Western-blot analysis, LY9 identified an 85-kDa protein (p85) in the lysates of several endothelial cells derived from microvascular or large vessel sources, the expression of which is dramatically increased by VPF/VEGF165. The mAb also identified p85 in primary cell cultures of human foreskin keratinocytes but failed to recognize human fibroblasts (MRC5) and a number of different human tumor cell lines, including MG63 osteosarcoma and MCF7 breast carcinoma cells. Immunological screening of a human keratinocyte λgt11 cDNA expression library with LY9 identified a partial cDNA clone of 750 bp. DNA sequencing of this clone and predicted amino acids showed more than 93% homology to RING3 kinase, a member of a newly described family of bromodomain-containing proteins that transactivates in the nucleus the promoters of a number of the E2F family of transcription factors. This molecule may represent a new signaling target activated by VPF/VEGF165 and bFGF that allows endothelial cells to enter the proliferative phase of the angiogenic process.
Identification of Exo1-Msh2 interaction motifs in DNA mismatch repair and new Msh2-binding partners. Eukaryotic DNA mismatch repair (MMR) involves both exonuclease 1 (Exo1)-dependent and Exo1-independent pathways. We found that the unstructured C-terminal domain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae Exo1 contains two MutS homolog 2 (Msh2)-interacting peptide (SHIP) boxes downstream from the MutL homolog 1 (Mlh1)-interacting peptide (MIP) box. These three sites were redundant in Exo1-dependent MMR in vivo and could be replaced by a fusion protein between an N-terminal fragment of Exo1 and Msh6. The SHIP-Msh2 interactions were eliminated by the msh2M470I mutation, and wild-type but not mutant SHIP peptides eliminated Exo1-dependent MMR in vitro. We identified two S. cerevisiae SHIP-box-containing proteins and three candidate human SHIP-box-containing proteins. One of these, Fun30, had a small role in Exo1-dependent MMR in vivo. The Remodeling of the Structure of Chromatin (Rsc) complex also functioned in both Exo1-dependent and Exo1-independent MMR in vivo. Our results identified two modes of Exo1 recruitment and a peptide module that mediates interactions between Msh2 and other proteins, and they support a model in which Exo1 functions in MMR by being tethered to the Msh2–Msh6 complex.
Identification of NCF2/p67phox as a novel p53 target gene. Analysis of microarrays performed in p53-, TAp63α- and ΔNp63α-inducible SaOs-2 cell lines allowed the identification of NCF2 mRNA upregulation in response to p53 induction. NCF2 gene encodes for p67phox, the cytosolic subunit of the NADPH oxidase enzyme complex. The recruitment of p67phox to the cell membrane causes the activation of the NADPH oxidase complex followed by the generation of NADP+ and superoxide from molecular oxygen. The presence of three putative p53 binding sites on the NCF2 promoter was predicted, and the subsequent luciferase and chromatin immunoprecipitation assays showed the activation of NCF2 promoter by p53 and its direct binding in vivo to at least one of the sites, thus confirming the hypothesis. NCF2 upregulation was also confirmed by real-time PCR in several cell lines after p53 activation. NCF2 knockdown by siRNA results in a significant reduction of ROS production and stimulates cell death, suggesting a protective function of Nox2-generated ROS in cells against apoptosis. These results provide insight into the redox-sensitive signaling mechanism that mediates cell survival involving p53 and its novel target NCF2/p67phox.
Identification of Potential Novel Prognosis-Related Genes Through Transcriptome Sequencing, Bioinformatics Analysis, and Clinical Validation in Acute Myeloid Leukemia. Background: Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) is a complex and heterogeneous hematologic malignancy. However, the function of prognosis-related signature genes in AML remains unclear. Methods: In the current study, transcriptome sequencing was performed on 15 clinical samples, differentially expressed RNAs were identified using R software. The potential interactions network was constructed by using the common genes between target genes of differentially expressed miRNAs with transcriptome sequencing results. Functional and pathway enrichment analysis was performed to identify candidate gene-mediated aberrant signaling pathways. Hub genes were identified by the cytohubba plugin in Cytoscape software, which then expanded the potential interactions regulatory module for hub genes. TCGA-LAML clinical data were used for the prognostic analysis of the hub genes in the regulatory network, and GVSA analysis was used to identify the immune signature of prognosis-related hub genes. qRT-PCR was used to verify the expression of hub genes in independent clinical samples. Results: We obtained 1,610 differentially expressed lncRNAs, 233 differentially expressed miRNAs, and 2,217 differentially expressed mRNAs from transcriptome sequencing. The potential interactions network is constructed by 12 lncRNAs, 25 miRNAs, and 692 mRNAs. Subsequently, a sub-network including 15 miRNAs as well as 12 lncRNAs was created based on the expanded regulatory modules of 25 key genes. The prognostic analysis results show that CCL5 and lncRNA UCA1 was a significant impact on the prognosis of AML. Besides, we found three potential interactions networks such as lncRNA UCA1/hsa-miR-16-5p/COL4A5, lncRNA UCA1/hsa-miR-16-5p/SPARC, and lncRNA SNORA27/hsa-miR-17-5p/CCL5 may play an important role in AML. Furthermore, the evaluation of the immune infiltration shows that CCL5 is positively correlated with various immune signatures, and lncRNA UCA1 is negatively correlated with the immune signatures. Finally, the result of qRT-PCR showed that CCL5 is down-regulated and lncRNA UCA1 is up-regulated in AML samples separately. Conclusions: In conclusion, we propose that CCL5 and lncRNA UCA1 could be recognized biomarkers for predicting survival prognosis based on constructing competing endogenous RNAs in AML, which will provide us novel insight into developing novel prognostic, diagnostic, and therapeutic for AML.
Identification of a Ten-Gene Signature of DNA Damage Response Pathways with Prognostic Value in Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma. Molecular prognostic signatures are critical for treatment decision-making in esophageal squamous cell cancer (ESCC), but the robustness of these signatures is limited. The aberrant DNA damage response (DDR) pathway may lead to the accumulation of mutations and thus accelerate tumor progression in ESCC. Given this, we applied the LASSO Cox regression to the transcriptomic data of DDR genes, and a prognostic DDR-related gene expression signature (DRGS) consisting of ten genes was constructed, including PARP3, POLB, XRCC5, MLH1, DMC1, GTF2H3, PER1, SMC5, TCEA1, and HERC2. The DRGS was independently associated with overall survival in both training and validation cohorts. The DRGS achieved higher accuracy than six previously reported multigene signatures for the prediction of prognosis in comparable cohorts. Furtherly, a nomogram incorporating DRGS and clinicopathological features showed improved predicting performance. Taken together, the DRGS was identified as a novel, robust, and effective prognostic indicator, which may refine the scheme of risk stratification and management in ESCC patients.
Identification of a carbonic anhydrase-like domain in the extracellular region of RPTPγ defines a new subfamily of receptor tyrosine phosphatases. The tyrosine phosphatase RPTPγ is a candidate tumor suppressor gene since it is located on human chromosome 3(p)14.2-(p)21 in a region frequently deleted in certain types of renal and lung carcinomas. In order to evaluate its oncogenic potential and to explore its normal in vivo functions, we have isolated cDNAs and deduced the complete sequences of both human and murine RPTPγ. The murine RPTPγ gene has been localized to chromosome 14 to a region syntenic to the location of the human gene. Northern (RNA) blot analysis reveals the presence of two major transcripts of 5.5 and 8.5 kb in a variety of murine tissues. In situ hybridization analysis reveals that RPTPγ mRNA is expressed in specific regions of the brain and that the localization of RPTPγ changes during brain development. RPTPγ is composed of a putative extracellular domain, a single transmembrane domain, and a cytoplasmic portion with two tandem catalytic tyrosine phosphatase domains. The extracellular domain contains a stretch of 266 amino acids with striking homology to the zinc-containing enzyme carbonic anhydrase (CAH), indicating that RPTPγ and RPTPβ (HPTPζ) represent a subfamily of receptor tyrosine phosphatases. We have constructed a model for the CAH-like domain of RPTPγ based upon the crystal structure of CAH. It appears that 11 of the 19 residues that form the active site of CAH are conserved in RPTPγ. Yet only one of the three His residues that ligate the zinc atom and are required for catalytic activity is conserved. On the basis of this model we propose that the CAH-like domain of RPTPγ may have a function other than catalysis of hydration of metabolic CO2.
Identification of a circadian clock in the inferior colliculus and its dysregulation by noise exposure. Circadian rhythms regulate bodily functions within 24 h and long-term disruptions in these rhythms can cause various diseases. Recently, the peripheral auditory organ, the cochlea, has been shown to contain a self-sustained circadian clock that regulates differential sensitivity to noise exposure throughout the day. Animals exposed to noise during the night are more vulnerable than when exposed during the day. However, whether other structures throughout the auditory pathway also possess a circadian clock remains unknown. Here, we focus on the inferior colliculus (IC), which plays an important role in noise-induced pathologies such as tinnitus, hyperacusis, and audiogenic seizures. Using PER2::LUC transgenic mice and real-time bioluminescence recordings, we revealed circadian oscillations of Period 2 protein in IC explants for up to 1 week. Clock genes (Cry1, Bmal1, Per1, Per2, Rev-erbα, and Dbp) displayed circadian molecular oscillations in the IC. Averaged expression levels of early-induced genes and clock genes during 24 h revealed differential responses to day or night noise exposure. Rev-erbα and Dbp genes were affected only by day noise exposure, whereas Per1 and Per2 were affected only by night noise exposure. However, the expression of Bdnf was affected by both day and night noise exposure, suggesting that plastic changes are unlikely to be involved in the differences in day or night noise sensitivity in the IC. These novel findings highlight the importance of circadian responses in the IC and emphasize the importance of circadian mechanisms for understanding central auditory function and disorders.
Identification of a novel erythroid-specific enhancer for the ALAS2 gene and its loss-of-function mutation which is associated with congenital sideroblastic anemia. Erythroid-specific 5-aminolevulinate synthase (ALAS2) is the rate-limiting enzyme for heme biosynthesis in erythroid cells, and a missense mutation of the ALAS2 gene is associated with congenital sideroblastic anemia. However, the gene responsible for this form of anemia remains unclear in about 40% of patients. Here, we identify a novel erythroid-specific enhancer of 130 base pairs in the first intron of the ALAS2 gene. The newly identified enhancer contains a cis-acting element that is bound by the erythroid-specific transcription factor GATA1, as confirmed by chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis in vivo and by electrophoretic mobility shift assay in vitro. A promoter activity assay in K562 human erythroleukemia cells revealed that the presence of this 130-base pair region increased the promoter activity of the ALAS2 gene by 10-15-fold. Importantly, two mutations, each of which disrupts the GATA-binding site in the enhancer, were identified in unrelated male patients with congenital sideroblastic anemia, and the lower expression level of ALAS2 mRNA in bone marrow erythroblasts was confirmed in one of these patients. Moreover, GATA1 failed to bind to each mutant sequence at the GATA-binding site, and each mutation abolished the enhancer function on ALAS2 promoter activity in K562 cells. Thus, a mutation at the GATA-binding site in this enhancer may cause congenital sideroblastic anemia. These results suggest that the newly identified intronic enhancer is essential for the expression of the ALAS2 gene in erythroid cells. We propose that the 130-base pair enhancer region located in the first intron of the ALAS2 gene should be examined in patients with congenital sideroblastic anemia in whom the gene responsible is unknown.
Identification of an evolutionarily conserved domain in Neurod1 favouring enteroendocrine versus goblet cell fate. ARP/ASCL transcription factors are key determinants of cell fate specification in a wide variety of tissues, coordinating the acquisition of generic cell fates and of specific subtype identities. How these factors, recognizing highly similar DNA motifs, display specific activities, is not yet fully understood. To address this issue, we overexpressed different ARP/ASCL factors in zebrafish ascl1a-/- mutant embryos to determine which ones are able to rescue the intestinal secretory lineage. We found that Ascl1a/b, Atoh1a/b and Neurod1 factors are all able to trigger the first step of the secretory regulatory cascade but distinct secretory cells are induced by these factors. Indeed, Neurod1 rescues the enteroendocrine lineage while Ascl1a/b and Atoh1a/b rescue the goblet cells. Gain-of-function experiments with Ascl1a/ Neurod1 chimeric proteins revealed that the functional divergence is encoded by a 19-aa ultra-conserved element (UCE), present in all Neurod members but absent in the other ARP/ASCL proteins. Importantly, inserting the UCE into the Ascl1a protein reverses the rescuing capacity of this Ascl1a chimeric protein that cannot rescue the goblet cells anymore but can efficiently rescue the enteroendocrine cells. This novel domain acts indeed as a goblet cell fate repressor that inhibits gfi1aa expression, known to be important for goblet cell differentiation. Deleting the UCE domain of the endogenous Neurod1 protein leads to an increase in the number of goblet cells concomitant with a reduction of the enteroendocrine cells, phenotype also observed in the neurod1 null mutant. This highlights the crucial function of the UCE domain for NeuroD1 activity in the intestine. As Gfi1 acts as a binary cell fate switch in several tissues where Neurod1 is also expressed, we can envision a similar role of the UCE in other tissues, allowing Neurod1 to repress Gfi1 to influence the balance between cell fates.
Identification of human VPS37C, a component of endosomal sorting complex required for transport-I important for viral budding. Endosomal sorting complex required for transport-I (ESCRT-I) is one of three defined protein complexes in the class E vacuolar protein sorting (VPS) pathway required for the sorting of ubiquitinated transmembrane proteins into internal vesicles of multivesicular bodies. In yeast, ESCRT-I is composed of three proteins, VSP23, VPS28, and VPS37, whereas in mammals only Tsg101(VPS23) and VPS28 were originally identified as ESCBT-I components. Using yeast two-hybrid screens, we identified one of a family of human proteins (VPS37C) as a Tsg101-binding protein. VPS37C can form a ternary complex with Tsg101 and VPS28 by binding to a domain situated toward the carboxyl terminus of Tsg101 and binds to another class E VPS factor, namely Hrs. In addition, VPS37C is recruited to aberrant endosomes induced by overexpression of Tsg101, Hrs, or dominant negative form of the class E VPS ATPase, VPS4. Enveloped viruses that encode PTAP motifs to facilitate budding exploit ESCRT-I as an interface with the class E VPS pathway, and accordingly, VPS37C is recruited to the plasma membrane along with Tsg101 by human immunodeficiency virus, type 1 (HIV-1) Gag. Moreover, direct fusion of VPS37C to HIV-1 Gag obviates the requirement for a PTAP motif to induce virion release. Depletion of VPS37C from cells does not inhibit murine leukemia virus budding, which is not mediated by ESCRT-I, however, if murine leukemia virus budding is engineered to be ESCRT-I-dependent, then it is inhibited by VPS37C depletion, and this inhibition is accentuated if VPS37B is simultaneously depleted. Thus, this study identifies VPS37C as a functional component of mammalian ESCRT-I.
Identification of neuropeptide receptors expressed by melanin-concentrating hormone neurons. Melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) is a 19-amino-acid cyclic neuropeptide that acts in rodents via the MCH receptor 1 (MCHR1) to regulate a wide variety of physiological functions. MCH is produced by a distinct population of neurons located in the lateral hypothalamus (LH) and zona incerta (ZI), but MCHR1 mRNA is widely expressed throughout the brain. The physiological responses and behaviors regulated by the MCH system have been investigated, but less is known about how MCH neurons are regulated. The effects of most classical neurotransmitters on MCH neurons have been studied, but those of most neuropeptides are poorly understood. To gain insight into how neuropeptides regulate the MCH system, we investigated which neuropeptide receptors are expressed by MCH neurons by using double in situ hybridization. In all, 20 receptors, selected based on either a suspected interaction with the MCH system or demonstrated high expression levels in the LH and ZI, were tested to determine whether they are expressed by MCH neurons. Overall, 11 neuropeptide receptors were found to exhibit significant colocalization with MCH neurons: nociceptin/orphanin FQ opioid receptor (NOP), MCHR1, both orexin receptors (ORX), somatostatin receptors 1 and 2 (SSTR1, SSTR2), kisspeptin recepotor (KissR1), neurotensin receptor 1 (NTSR1), neuropeptide S receptor (NPSR), cholecystokinin receptor A (CCKAR), and the κ-opioid receptor (KOR). Among these receptors, six have never before been linked to the MCH system. Surprisingly, several receptors thought to regulate MCH neurons displayed minimal colocalization with MCH, suggesting that they may not directly regulate the MCH system.
Identification of the receptors for somatostatin (SST) and cortistatin (CST) in chickens and investigation of the roles of cSST28, cSST14, and cCST14 in inhibiting cGHRH1-27NH2-induced growth hormone secretion in cultured chicken pituitary cells. Somatostatin receptors (SSTRs) are proposed to mediate the actions of somatostatin (SST) and its related peptide, cortistatin (CST), in vertebrates. However, the identity, functionality, and tissue expression of these receptors remain largely unknown in most non-mammalian vertebrates including birds. In this study, five SSTRs (named cSSTR1, cSSTR2, cSSTR3, cSSTR4, cSSTR5) were cloned from chicken brain by RT-PCR. Using a pGL3-CRE-luciferase reporter system, we demonstrated that activation of each cSSTR expressed in CHO cells by cSST28, cSST14 and cCST14 treatment could inhibit forskolin-induced luciferase activity of CHO cells, indicating the functional coupling of all cSSTRs to Gi protein(s). Interestingly, cSSTR1-4 expressed in CHO cells could be activated by cSST28, cSST14 and cCST14 with high potencies, suggesting that they may function as the receptors common for these peptides. In contrast, cSSTR5 could be potently activated by cSST28 only, indicating that it is a cSST28-specific receptor. Using RT-PCR, wide expression of cSSTRs was detected in chicken tissues including pituitary. In accordance with their expression in pituitary, cSST28, cSST14, and cCST14 were demonstrated to inhibit basal and novel cGHRH1-27NH2-induced GH secretion in cultured chicken pituitary cells dose-dependently (0-10nM) by Western blot analysis, suggesting the involvement of cSSTR(s) common for these peptides in mediating their inhibitory actions. Collectively, our study establishes a molecular basis to elucidate the roles of SST/CST in birds and provide insights into the roles of SST/CST in vertebrates, such as their conserved actions on pituitary.
Identification of two regulatory binding sites which confer myotube specific expression of the mono-ADP-ribosyltransferase ART1 gene. Background: Mono-ADP-ribosyltransferase (ART) 1 belongs to a family of mammalian ectoenzymes that catalyze the transfer of ADP-ribose from NAD+ to a target protein. ART1 is predominantly expressed in skeletal and cardiac muscle. It ADP-ribosylates α7-integrin which together with β1-integrin forms a dimer and binds to laminin, a protein of the extracellular matrix involved in cell adhesion. This posttranslational modification leads to an increased laminin binding affinity. Results: Using C2C12 and C3H-10T 1/2 cells as models of myogenesis, we found that ART1 expression was restricted to myotube formation. We identified a fragment spanning the gene 1.3 kb upstream of the transcriptional start site as the functional promoter of the ART1 gene. This region contains an E box and an A/T-rich element, two conserved binding sites for transcription factors found in the promoters of most skeletal muscle specific genes. Mutating the DNA consensus sequence of either the E box or the A/T-rich element resulted in a nearly complete loss of ART1 promoter inducibility, indicating a cooperative role of the transcription factors binding to those sites. Gel mobility shift analyses carried out with nuclear extracts from C2C12 and C3H-10T 1/2 cells revealed binding of myogenin to the E box and MEF-2 to the A/ T-rich element, the binding being restricted to C2C12 and C3H-10T 1/2 myotubes. Conclusion: Here we describe the molecular mechanism underlying the regulation of the ART1 gene expression in skeletal muscle cells. The differentiation-dependent upregulation of ART1 mRNA is induced by the binding of myogenin to an E box and of MEF-2 to an A/T-rich element in the proximal promoter region of the ART1 gene. Thus the transcriptional regulation involves molecular mechanisms similar to those used to activate muscle-specific genes.
Identifying differential miR and gene consensus patterns in peripheral blood of patients with cardiovascular diseases from literature data. Background: Numerous recent studies suggest the potential of circulating MicroRNAs (miRs) in peripheral blood samples as diagnostic or prognostic markers for coronary artery disease (CAD), acute coronary syndrome (ACS) and heart failure (HF). However, literature often remains inconclusive regarding as to which markers are most indicative for which of the above diseases. This shortcoming is mainly due to the lack of a systematic analyses and absence of information on the functional pathophysiological role of these miRs and their target genes. Methods: We here provide an-easy-to-use scoring approach to investigate the likelihood of regulation of several miRs and their target genes from literature by identifying consensus patterns of regulation. We therefore have screened over 1000 articles that study mRNA markers in cardiovascular and metabolic diseases, and devised a scoring algorithm to identify consensus means for miRs and genes regulation across several studies. We then aimed to identify differential markers between CAD, ACS and HF. Results: We first identified miRs (miR-122, -126, -223, -138 and -370) as commonly regulated within a group of metabolic disease, while investigating cardiac-related pathologies (CAD, ACS, HF) revealed a decisive role of miR-1, -499, -208b, and -133a. Looking at differential markers between cardiovascular disease revealed miR-1, miR-208a and miR-133a to distinguish ACS and CAD to HF. Relating differentially expressed miRs to their putative gene targets using MirTarBase, we further identified HCN2/4 and LASP1 as potential markers of CAD and ACS, but not in HF. Likewise, BLC-2 was found oppositely regulated between CAD and HF. Interestingly, while studying overlap in target genes between CAD, ACS and HF only revealed little similarities, mapping these genes to gene ontology terms revealed a surprising similarity between CAD and ACS compared to HF. Conclusion: We conclude that our analysis using gene and miR scores allows the extraction of meaningful markers and the elucidation of differential pathological functions between cardiac diseases and provides a novel approach for literature screening for miR and gene consensus patterns. The analysis is easy to use and extendable upon further emergent literature as we provide an Excel sheet for this analysis to the community.
In silico modeling of epigenetic-induced changes in photoreceptor cis-regulatory elements. Purpose: DNA methylation is a well-characterized epigenetic repressor of mRNA transcription in many plant and vertebrate systems. However, the mechanism of this repression is not fully understood. The process of transcription is controlled by proteins that regulate recruitment and activity of RNA polymerase by binding to specific cis-regulatory sequences. Cone-rod homeobox (CRX) is a well-characterized mammalian transcription factor that controls photoreceptor cell-specific gene expression. Although much is known about the functions and DNA binding specificity of CRX, little is known about how DNA methylation modulates CRX binding affinity to genomic cis-regulatory elements. Methods: We used bisulfite pyrosequencing of human ocular tissues to measure DNA methylation levels of the regulatory regions of RHO, PDE6B, PAX6, and LINE1 retrotransposon repeats. To describe the molecular mechanism of repression, we used molecular modeling to illustrate the effect of DNA methylation on human RHO regulatory sequences. Results: In this study, we demonstrate an inverse correlation between DNA methylation in regulatory regions adjacent to the human RHO and PDE6B genes and their subsequent transcription in human ocular tissues. Docking of CRX to the DNA models shows that CRX interacts with the grooves of these sequences, suggesting changes in groove structure could regulate binding. Molecular dynamics simulations of the RHO promoter and enhancer regions show changes in the flexibility and groove width upon epigenetic modification. Models also demonstrate changes in the local dynamics of CRX binding sites within RHO regulatory sequences which may account for the repression of CRX-dependent transcription. Conclusions: Collectively, these data demonstrate epigenetic regulation of CRX binding sites in human retinal tissue and provide insight into the mechanism of this mode of epigenetic regulation to be tested in future experiments.
In vitro differentiation of adult adipose mesenchymal stem cells into retinal progenitor cells. Introduction: It has been previously shown that adult mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) differentiate into neural progenitor cells (NPCs) and that the differentiation process was completed in 24-48 h. In this previous study, MSCs from a bone marrow or fat source were co-incubated with homologous autoaggressive cells (ECs) against nerve tissue, and these NPCs were successfully used in human regenerative therapeutic approaches. The present study was conducted to investigate whether a similar differentiation method could be used to obtain autologous retinal progenitor cells (RPCs). Methods: Human Th1 cells against retinal tissue were obtained by challenging human blood mononuclear cells with an eye lysate of bovine origin; negative selection was performed using a specific immunomagnetic bead cocktail. Fat MSCs were obtained from a human donor through mechanical and enzymatic dissociation of a surgical sample. The ECs and MSCs were co-cultured in a serum-free medium without the addition of cytokines for 0, 24, 48 and 72 h. The plastic adherent cells were morphologically examined using inverted-phase microscopy and characterized by immunofluorescent staining using antibodies against Pax 6, TUBB3, GFAP, Bestrophin 2, RPE 65, OPN1 SW, and rhodopsin antigens. Results: The early signs of MSC differentiation into RPCs were observed at 24 h of co-culture, and the early differentiated retinal linage cells appeared at 72 h (neurons, rods, Mller cells, retinal ganglion cells and retinal pigmented epithelial cells). These changes increased during further culture. Conclusion: The results reported here support the development of a method to obtain a large number of autologous adult RPCs, which could be used to treat different retinopathies.
In vivo methylation of mtDNA reveals the dynamics of protein-mtDNA interactions. To characterize the organization of mtDNA-protein complexes (known as nucleoids) in vivo, we have probed the mtDNA surface exposure using site-specific DNA methyltransferases targeted to the mitochondria. We have observed that DNA methyltransferases have different accessibility to different sites on the mtDNA based on the levels of protein occupancy. We focused our studies on selected regions of mtDNA that are believed to be major regulatory regions involved in transcription and replication. The transcription termination region (TERM) within the tRNALeu(UUR) gene was consistently and strongly protected from methylation, suggesting frequent and high affinity binding of mitochondrial transcription termination factor 1 (mTERF1) to the site. Protection from methylation was also observed in other regions of the mtDNA, including the light and heavy strand promoters (LSP, HSP) and the origin of replication of the light strand (OL). Manipulations aiming at increasing or decreasing the levels of the mitochondrial transcription factor A (TFAM) led to decreased in vivo methylation, whereas manipulations that stimulated mtDNA replication led to increased methylation. We also analyzed the effect of ATAD3 and oxidative stress in mtDNA exposure. Our data provide a map of human mtDNA accessibility and demonstrate that nucleoids are dynamically associated with proteins.
Increased nuclear localization of transcription factor Y-box binding protein 1 accompanied by up-regulation of P-glycoprotein in breast cancer pretreated with paclitaxel. Purpose: The Y-box binding protein 1 (YB-1) regulates expression of P-glycoprotein encoded by the MDR1 gene. There have been no previous studies regarding the involvement of YB-1 in the development of resistance to paclitaxel. The present study was done to examine how paclitaxel affects the localization and expression of YB-1 in breast cancer. Experimental Design: We evaluated the expression and localization of YB-1 and P-glycoprotein in breast cancer tissues obtained from 27 patients before and after treatment with paclitaxel. The effect of paclitaxel on localization of cellular YB-1 was examined by using GFP-YB-1. Interaction of YB-1 with the Y-box motif of the MDR1 promoters was studied by electrophoretic mobility shift assay. The effects of paclitaxel on MDR1 promoter activity were examined by luciferase assay. Results: Of 27 breast cancer tissues treated with paclitaxel, nine (33%) showed translocation of YB-1 from the cytoplasm to the nucleus together with increased expression of P-glycoprotein during the course of treatment. Twelve breast cancer tissues (44%) showed neither translocation of YB-1 nor increased expression of P-glycoprotein. Nuclear translocation of YB-1 was correlated significantly with increased expression of P-glycoprotein (P = 0.0037), Confocal analysis indicated that paclitaxel induced nuclear translocation of green fluorescent fused YB-1 in MCF7 cells. Furthermore, binding of YB-1 to the Y-box of MDR1 promoter was increased in response to treatment with paclitaxel. In addition, MDR1 promoter activity was significantly up-regulated by paclitaxel in MCF7 cells (P < 0.001). Conclusions: The results of the present study suggested that YB-1 may be involved in the development of resistance to paclitaxel in breast cancer.
Induction of Heme Oxygenase-1 by Na+-H+ exchanger 1 protein plays a crucial role in Imatinib-resistant chronic myeloid leukemia cells. Resistance toward imatinib (IM) and other BCR/ABL tyrosine kinase inhibitors remains troublesome in the treatment of advanced stage chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). The aim of this study was to estimate the reversal effects of down-regulation of Na+/H+ exchanger 1 (NHE1) on the chemoresistance of BCR-ABL-positive leukemia patients' cells and cell lines. After treatment with the specific NHE1 inhibitor cariporide to decrease intracellular pH (pHi), the heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) levels of the K562R cell line and cells from IM-insensitive CML patients decreased. HO-1, as a Bcr/Abl-dependent survival molecule in CML cells, is important for the resistance to tyrosine kinase inhibitors in patients with newly diagnosed CML or IMresistant CML. Silencing PKC-β and Nrf-2 or treatment with inhibitors of p38 pathways obviously blocked NHE1-induced HO-1 expression. Furthermore, treatment with HO-1 or p38 inhibitor plus IM increased the apoptosis of the K562R cell line and IM-insensitive CML patients' cells. Inhibiting HO-1 enhanced the activation of caspase-3 and poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1. Hence, the results support the anti-apoptotic role of HO-1 induced by NHE1 in the K562R cell line and IM-insensitive CML patients and provide a mechanism by which inducing HO-1 expression via the PKC-β/p38-MAPK pathway may promote tumor resistance to oxidative stress.
Induction of activation-driven death (apoptosis) in activated but not resting peripheral blood T cells. Signaling via the CD3/TCR complex induces programmed cell death (apoptosis) in immature thymocytes and transformed T lymphocytes (hybridomas or leukemic cells). Accumulating evidence indicates, however, that apoptosis can be triggered also in mature peripheral T cells. Here we show that a significant fraction of cells of a given IL-2-dependent TCR-αβ+ clone or polyclonal short term line is killed when cultured for 20 h in the presence of PHA, anti-CD3 (OKT3), or anti-TCR (BMA031) mAb. Apoptosis can be triggered by these stimuli in CD4+, CD8+, and CD4-CD8- (double-negative) TCR- αβ+ clones. Activation-driven cell death (as quantified by propidium iodide staining and FACS analysis) is associated with fragmentation of DNA into oligonucleosomal bands of approximately 200 bp. Although freshly isolated peripheral blood T cells are largely resistant to apoptosis, the sensitivity to anti-CD3/TCR mAb or PHA-triggered cell death gradually increases upon activation and IL-2-dependent culture of T cells, and reaches a plateau level after 15 to 20 days. These data indicate that stimuli that activate resting T cells initiate death by apoptosis in activated T cells. The implications of these results for the regulation of cellular immune responses and the establishment of peripheral tolerance will be discussed.
Induction of lumen formation in a three-dimensional model of mammary morphogenesis by transcriptional regulator ID4: Role of CaMK2D in the epigenetic regulation of ID4 gene expression. Concomitant loss of lumen formation and cell adhesion protein CEACAM1 is a hallmark feature of breast cancer. In a three-dimensional culture model, transfection of CEACAM1 into MCF7 breast cells can restore lumen formation by an unknown mechanism. ID4, a transcriptional regulator lacking a DNA binding domain, is highly up-regulated in CEACAM1-transfected MCF7 cells, and when down-regulated with RNAi, abrogates lumen formation. Conversely, when MCF7 cells, which fail to form lumena in a three-dimensional culture, are transfected with ID4, lumen formation is restored, demonstrating that ID4 may substitute for CEACAM1. After showing the ID4 promoter is hypermethylated in MCF7 cells but hypomethylated in MCF/CEACAM1 cells, ID4 expression was induced in MCF7 cells by agents affecting chromatin remodeling and methylation. Mechanistically, CaMK2D was up-regulated in CEACAM1-transfected cells, effecting phosphorylation of HDAC4 and its sequestration in the cytoplasm by the adaptor protein 14-3-3. CaMK2D also phosphorylates CEACAM1 on its cytoplasmic domain and mutation of these phosphorylation sites abrogates lumen formation. Thus, CEACAM1 is able to maintain the active transcription of ID4 by an epigenetic mechanism involving HDAC4 and CaMK2D, and the same kinase enables lumen formation by CEACAM1. Because ID4 can replace CEACAM1 in parental MCF7 cells, it must act downstream from CEACAM1 by inhibiting the activity of other transcription factors that would otherwise prevent lumen formation. This overall mechanism may be operative in other cancers, such as colon and prostate, where the down-regulation of CEACAM1 is observed.
Induction of the CTLA-4 gene in human lymphocytes is dependent on NFAT binding the proximal promoter. CTLA-4 is a member of the costimulatory family, has homology to CD28, and binds the B7 family of ligands. Unlike CD28, CTLA-4 ligation transmits a negative signal in T cells. CTLA-4 expression, while inducible in most T cells, is expressed constitutively on T cells with a regulatory phenotype. The mechanism controlling CTLA-4 expression in human T cells is poorly characterized, thus we sought to better understand the mechanism of activation of the CTLA-4 gene. By cloning the 5′ upstream promoter and creating promoter-deletion reporter constructs, we show that the proximal promoter is critical for activating the CTLA-4 gene. Within this region, we identify a NFAT consensus sequence that binds NFAT with high affinity that differs from other NFAT sequences and does not recruit AP-1. Analysis of the chromatin proteins in the native CTLA-4 gene shows that this promoter region becomes associated with acetylated histones by chromatin immunoprecipitation assays. In addition, NFAT1 binds to the promoter of the CTLA-4 gene after stimulation by chromatin immunoprecipitation. The functional requirement of the NFAT site for CTLA-4 transcription was demonstrated by mutations in the NFAT site that abolished the activity of the promoter. Furthermore, inhibitors of NFAT suppressed CTLA-4 gene expression, indicating that NFAT plays a critical role in regulating the induction of the CTLA-4 gene in lymphocytes. The identification of NFAT as a critical regulator of the CTLA-4 gene suggests that targeting NFAT function may lead to novel approaches to modulate the CTLA-4 gene to control the immune response.
Inhibition of EZH2 ameliorates bacteria-induced liver injury by repressing RUNX1 in dendritic cells. Fulminant hepatic failure (FHF) is a clinical syndrome characterized by a sudden and severe impairment in liver function. However, the precise mechanism of immune dysregulation that is significant to FHF pathogenesis remains unclear. Enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (EZH2) has been implicated in inflammation as a regulator of immune cell function. In this study, we investigated the role of EZH2 in an animal model of human FHF induced by Propionibacterium acnes (P. acnes) and lipopolysaccharide (LPS). We demonstrated that EZH2 depletion in dendritic cells (DCs) and pharmacological inhibition of EZH2 using GSK126 both significantly ameliorated liver injury and improved the survival rates of mice with P. acnes plus LPS-induced FHF, which could be attributed to the decreased infiltration and activation of CD4+ T cells in the liver, inhibition of T helper 1 cells and induction of regulatory T cells. The expression of EZH2 in DCs was increased after P. acnes administration, and EZH2 deficiency in DCs suppressed DC maturation and prevented DCs from efficiently stimulating CD4+ T-cell proliferation. Further mechanistic analyses indicated that EZH2 deficiency directly increased the expression of the transcription factor RUNX1 and thereby suppressed the immune functions of DCs. The functional dependence of EZH2 on RUNX1 was further illustrated in DC-specific Ezh2-deficient mice. Taken together, our findings establish that EZH2 exhibits anti-inflammatory effects through inhibition of RUNX1 to regulate DC functions and that inhibition of EZH2 alleviates P. acnes plus LPS-induced FHF, probably by inhibiting DC-induced adaptive immune responses. These results highlight the effect of EZH2 on DCs, serving as a guide for the development of a promising immunotherapeutic strategy for FHF.
Inhibition of delta-like-4-mediated signaling impairs reparative angiogenesis after ischemia. Rationale: Notch signaling regulates vascular development. However, the implication of the Notch ligand Delta-like 4 (Dll4) in postischemic angiogenesis remains unclear. Objective: We investigated the role of Dll4/Notch signaling in reparative angiogenesis using a mouse model of ischemia. Methods and results: We found Dll4 weakly expressed in microvascular endothelial cells of normoperfused muscles. Conversely, Dll4 is upregulated following ischemia and localized at the forefront of sprouting capillaries. We analyzed the effect of inhibiting endogenous Dll4 by intramuscular injection of an adenovirus encoding the soluble form of Dll4 extracellular domain (Ad-sDll4). Dll4 inhibition caused the formation of a disorganized, low-perfused capillary network in ischemic muscles. This structural abnormality was associated to delayed blood flow recovery and muscle hypoxia and degeneration. Analysis of microvasculature at early stages of repair revealed that Dll4 inhibition enhances capillary sprouting in a chaotic fashion and causes excessive leukocyte infiltration of ischemic muscles. Furthermore, Dll4 inhibition potentiated the elevation of the leukocyte chemoattractant CXCL1 (chemokine [C-X-C motif] ligand 1) following ischemia, without altering peripheral blood levels of stromal cell-derived factor-1 and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1. In cultured human monocytes, Dll4 induces the transcription of Notch target gene Hes-1 and inhibits the basal and tumor necrosis factor-α-stimulated production of interleukin-8, the human functional homolog of murine CXCL1. The inhibitory effect of Dll4 on interleukin-8 was abolished by DAPT, a Notch inhibitor, or by coculturing activated human monocytes with Ad-sDll4-infected endothelial cells. Conclusions: Dll4/Notch interaction is essential for proper reparative angiogenesis. Moreover, Dll4/Notch signaling regulates sprouting angiogenesis and coordinates the interaction between inflammation and angiogenesis under ischemic conditions.
Inhibition of endothelial cell activation by the homeobox gene Gax. Background. Angiogenesis is critical to tumor growth. Gax, a homeobox transcription factor whose expression in the adult is restricted mainly to the cardiovascular system, strongly inhibits growth factor-stimulated phenotypic modulation of vascular smooth muscle cells in vitro and in vivo. The function of Gax in vascular endothelium is unknown, but we hypothesized that it may play a similar role there. We therefore studied Gax expression in vascular endothelial cells and its effects on proliferation and tube formation. Materials and methods. Gax expression in normal endothelial cells was examined in vitro by Northern blot and reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction and in vivo by immunohistochemistry. A replication-deficient adenovirus was then used to express Gax in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). HUVEC proliferation, 3H-thymidine uptake, p21 expression, and tube formation on reconstituted basement membrane were measured at different viral multiplicities of infection. Results. Gax mRNA was detected in HUVECs by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction and Northern blot analysis and in normal vascular endothelium by immunohistochemistry. Compared with controls transduced with a virus expressing β-galactosidase, Gax strongly inhibited HUVEC proliferation and mitogen-stimulated 3H-thymidine uptake. p21 expression in HUVECs transduced with Gax was increased up to 5-fold as measured by Northern blot, and p21 promoter activity was activated by 4- to 5-fold. Tube formation on Matrigel was strongly inhibited by Gax expression. Conclusions. Gax is expressed in vascular endothelium and strongly inhibits endothelial cell activation in response to growth factors and tube formation in vitro. These observations suggest that Gax inhibits endothelial cell transition to the angiogenic phenotype in response to proangiogenic growth factors and, as a negative regulator of angiogenesis, may represent a target for the antiangiogenic therapy of cancer.
Inhibitory action of gonadotropin-inhibitory hormone on the signaling pathways induced by kisspeptin and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide in GnRH neuronal cell line, GT1-7. Gonadotropin-inhibitory hormone (GnIH) acts as a negative regulator of reproduction by acting on gonadotropes and gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) neurons. Despite its functional significance, the molecular mechanism of GnIH action in the target cells has not been fully elucidated. To expand our previous study on GnIH actions in gonadotropes, we investigated the potential signal transduction pathway that conveys the inhibitory action of GnIH in GnRH neurons by using the GnRH neuronal cell line, GT1-7. We examined whether GnIH inhibits the action of kisspeptin and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP), positive regulators of GnRH neurons. Although GnIH significantly suppressed the stimulatory effect of kisspeptin on GnRH release in hypothalamic culture, GnIH had no inhibitory effect on kisspeptin stimulation of serum response element and nuclear factor of activated T-cell response element activities and ERK phosphorylation, indicating that GnIH may not directly inhibit kisspeptin signaling in GnRH neurons. On the contrary, GnIH effectively eliminated the stimulatory effect of VIP on p38 and ERK phosphorylation, c-Fos mRNA expression, and GnRH release. The use of pharmacological modulators strongly demonstrated the specific inhibitory action of GnIH on the adenylate cyclase/cAMP/protein kinase A pathway, suggesting a common inhibitory mechanism of GnIH action in GnRH neurons and gonadotropes.
Insulin increases tristetraprolin and decreases VEGF gene expression in mouse 3T3-L1 adipocytes. Objectives: Tristetraprolin (TTP) family proteins (TTP/ZFP36; ZFP36L1, ZFP36L2, ZFP36L3) destabilize adenylate uridylate-rich element-containing mRNAs encoding cytokines, such as tumor necrosis factor (TNF) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). Little is known about the expression and insulin regulation of TTP and related genes in adipocytes. We analyzed the relative abundance of TTP family mRNAs in 3T3-L1 adipocytes compared to RAW264.7 macrophages and investigated insulin effects on the expression of 43 genes in 3T3-L1 adipocytes. Methods and Procedures: Insulin was added to mouse 3T3-L1 adipocytes. Relative abundance of mRNA levels was determined by quantitative real-time PCR. TTP and ZFP36L1 proteins were detected by immunoblotting. Results: Zfp36l1 and Zfp36l2 genes were expressed at eight- to tenfold higher than Ttp in adipocytes. Zfp36l3 mRNA was detected at ∼1% of Ttp mRNA levels in adipocytes and its low level expression was confirmed in RAW cells. Insulin at 10 and 100 nmol/l increased Ttp mRNA levels by five- to sevenfold, but decreased those of Zfp36l3 by 40% in adipocytes after a 30-min treatment. Immunoblotting showed that insulin induced TTP but did not affect ZFP36L1 protein levels in adipocytes. Insulin decreased mRNA levels of Vegf and a number of other genes in adipocytes. Discussion: Insulin induced Ttp mRNA and protein expression and decreased Vegf mRNA levels in adipocytes. Zfp36l3 mRNA was detected, for the first time, in cells other than mouse placenta and extraembryonic tissues. This study established a basis for the investigation of TTP and VEGF genes in the regulation of obesity and suggested that Vegf mRNA may be a target of TTP in fat cells.
Integrative omics analyses reveal epigenetic memory in diabetic renal cells regulating genes associated with kidney dysfunction. Diabetic kidney disease (DKD) is a major complication of diabetes and the leading cause of end-stage renal failure. Epigenetics has been associated with metabolic memory in which prior periods of hyperglycemia enhance the future risk of developing DKD despite subsequent glycemic control. To understand the mechanistic role of such epigenetic memory in human DKD and to identify new therapeutic targets, we profiled gene expression, DNA methylation, and chromatin accessibility in kidney proximal tubule epithelial cells (PTECs) derived from subjects with and without type 2 diabetes (T2D). T2D-PTECs displayed persistent gene expression and epigenetic changes with and without transforming growth factor-β1 treatment, even after culturing in vitro under similar conditions as nondiabetic PTECs, signified by deregulation of fibrotic and transport-associated genes (TAGs). Motif analysis of differential DNA methylation and chromatin accessibility regions associated with genes differentially regulated in T2D revealed enrichment for SMAD3, HNF4A, and CTCF transcription factor binding sites. Furthermore, the downregulation of several TAGs in T2D (including CLDN10, CLDN14, CLDN16, SLC16A2, and SLC16A5) was associated with promoter hypermethylation, decreased chromatin accessibility, and reduced enrichment of HNF4A, histone H3-lysine-27-acetylation, and CTCF. Together, these integrative analyses reveal epigenetic memory underlying the deregulation of key target genes in T2D-PTECs that may contribute to sustained renal dysfunction in DKD.
Interaction of deubiquitinase 2A-DUB/MYSM1 with DNA repair and replication factors. The deubiquitination of histone H2A on lysine 119 by 2A-DUB/MYSM1, BAP1, USP16, and other enzymes is required for key cellular processes, including transcriptional activation, apoptosis, and cell cycle control, during normal hematopoiesis and tissue development, and in tumor cells. Based on our finding that MYSM1 colocalizes with γH2AX foci in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells, leukemia cells, and melanoma cells upon induction of DNA double-strand breaks with topoisomerase inhibitor etoposide, we applied a mass spectrometry-based proteomics approach to identify novel 2A-DUB/MYSM1 interaction partners in DNA-damage responses. Differential display of MYSM1 binding proteins significantly enriched after exposure of 293T cells to etoposide revealed an interacting network of proteins involved in DNA damage and replication, including factors associated with poor melanoma outcome. In the context of increased DNAdamage in a variety of cell types in Mysm1-deficient mice, in bone marrow cells upon aging and in UV-exposed Mysm1-deficient skin, our current mass spectrometry data provide additional evidence for an interaction between MYSM1 and key DNA replication and repair factors, and indicate a potential function of 2A-DUB/MYSM1 in DNA repair processes.
Interaction of plexin-B1 with PDZ domain-containing Rho guanine nucleotide exchange factors. The Rho family GTPase has been implicated in plexin-B1, a receptor for Semaphorin 4D (Sema4D), mediating signal trans-duction. Rho may also play a function in this signaling pathway as well as Rac, but the mechanisms for Rho regulation are poorly understood. In this study, we have identified two kinds of PDZ domain-containing Rho-specific guanine nucleotide exchange factors (RhoGEFs) as proteins interacting with plexin-B1 cytoplasmic domain. These PDZ domain-containing RhoGEFs showed significant homology to human KIAA0380 (PDZ-RhoGEF) and LARG (KIAA0382), respectively. Both KIAA0380 and LARG could bind plexin-B1 and a deletion mutant analysis of plexin-B1, KIAA0380 and LARG revealed that KIAA0380 and LARG bound plexin-B1 cytoplasmic tail through their PDZ domains. The tissue distribution analysis indicated that plexin-B1 was co-localized with KIAA0380 and LARG in various tissues. Immunocytochemical analysis showed that LARG was recruited to plasma membrane by plexin-B1. These results suggest that PDZ domain-containing RhoGEFs play a role in Sema4D-plexin-B1 mediating signal transduction.
Interference of transcription across H-NS binding sites and repression by H-NS. Nucleoid-associated protein H-NS represses transcription by forming extended DNA–H-NS complexes. Repression by H-NS operates mostly at the level of transcription initiation. Less is known about how DNA–H-NS complexes interfere with transcription elongation. In vitro H-NS has been shown to enhance RNA polymerase pausing and to promote Rho-dependent termination, while in vivo inhibition of Rho resulted in a decrease of the genome occupancy by H-NS. Here we show that transcription directed across H-NS binding regions relieves H-NS (and H-NS/StpA) mediated repression of promoters in these regions. Further, we observed a correlation of transcription across the H-NS-bound region and de-repression. The data suggest that the transcribing RNA polymerase is able to remodel the H-NS complex and/or dislodge H-NS from the DNA and thus relieve repression. Such an interference of transcription and H-NS mediated repression may imply that poorly transcribed AT-rich loci are prone to be repressed by H-NS, while efficiently transcribed loci escape repression.
Interferon gamma is not required for recurrent herpetic stromal keratitis. The role that interferon-γ (IFNγ) plays during herpetic stromal keratitis (HSK) has not been definitively determined. In primary HSK most reports suggest that IFNγ may help control viral replication and contribute to corneal pathology. However, its role in recurrent HSK has not been directly addressed. The present study addresses its role in recurrent HSK by comparing HSK in latently infected normal and IFNγ gene knockout (GKO) on the C57BL/6 background. We initially evaluated HSK following primary infection and observed that GKO mice had higher tear film virus titers, but virtually identical ocular disease as normal mice. In contrast, following reactivation of latent virus, GKO mice had a greater incidence and severity of opacity, neovascularization, and blepharitis. Interestingly, the incidence of reactivation after UV-B exposure was equivalent in GKO and normal mice, but virus shedding was increased in the GKO groups. We also observed diminished delayed-type hypersensitivity responses in GKO mice, as expected. These data indicate that IFNγ is important for the control of virus replication in both primary and recurrent ocular HSV infection in C57BL/6 mice. The enhanced recurrent disease seen in GKO mice may be the result of increased viral titers and persistence in these mice which act to prolong the stimulation of an inflammatory response.
Interleukin-1 inhibits leydig cell steroidogenesis without affecting steroidogenic acute regulatory protein messenger ribonucleic acid or protein levels. The rate-limiting step of steroidogenesis is the transport of the substrate cholesterol from the outer to the inner mitochondrial membrane which involves a cycloheximide-sensitive newly synthesized protein. A protein believed to carry out this function was recently cloned from MA-10 mouse Leydig tumor cells and named the steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (STAR). In the present study, we evaluated the expression and regulation of StAR in primary cultures of rat Leydig cells. STAR mRNA was expressed in Leydig cells as two major transcripts of 3-8 and 1·7 kb and one minor transcript of 1·2 kb. Induction of StAR mRNA transcripts could be detected as early as 30 min after the addition of human choriogonadotropin (hCG) with peak levels attained between 2 and 4h. hCG in concentrations of 0·1-10 ng/ml caused a dose-dependent increase in StAR mRNA expression. hCG administered at a dose of 10 ng/ml increased the 3·8 kb StAR mRNA level about 14-fold and the 1·7 kb StAR mRNA level about 13·6-fold. hCG-stimulated STAR mRNA was associated with increased StAR protein levels as determined by immunoblot analysis (a 4·5-fold increase). Murine interleukin-1α (mIL-1α) at a concentration of 100 ng/ml inhibited hCG-induced cytochrome P450 side-chain cleavage (P450 scc) mRNA expression and testosterone formation almost completely. Interestingly, mIL-1α had no effect on hCG-induced StAR mRNA or protein levels. Furthermore, mIL-1α (10 ng/ml) decreased conversion of (22R)-hydroxycholesterol to testosterone while the conversion of pregnenolone, 17-hydroxypregnenolone, dehydroepiandrosterone and androstenedione to testosterone were not affected. These results indicate that the major inhibitory effect of IL-1 on Leydig cell function occurs at the level of P450 scc.
Internal ribosome entry site-mediated translational regulation of ATF4 splice variant in mammalian unfolded protein response. Activating transcription factor 4 (ATF4) is a master regulator of genes involved in unfolded protein response (UPR) and its translation is regulated through reinitiation at upstream open reading frames. Here, we demonstrate internal ribosome entry site (IRES)-mediated translation of an alternatively spliced variant of human ATF4. This variant that contains four upstream open reading frames in the 5' leader region was expressed in leukocytes and other tissues. mRNA and protein expression of this variant was activated in the UPR. Its translation was neither inhibited by steric hindrance nor affected by eIF4G1 inactivation, indicating a cap-independent and IRES-dependent mechanism not mediated by ribosome scanning-reinitiation. The IRES activity mapped to a highly structured region that partially overlaps with the third and fourth open reading frames was unlikely attributed to cryptic promoter or splicing, but was activated by PERK-induced eIF2α phosphorylation. Taken together, our findings reveal a new mechanism for translational regulation of ATF4 in mammalian UPR.
Interplay between TERT promoter mutations and methylation culminates in chromatin accessibility and TERT expression. The telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) gene is responsible for telomere maintenance in germline and stem cells, and is re-expressed in 90% of human cancers. CpG methylation in the TERT promoter (TERTp) was correlated with TERT mRNA expression. Furthermore, two hotspot mutations in TERTp, dubbed C228T and C250T, have been revealed to facilitate binding of transcription factor ETS/TCF and subsequent TERT expression. This study aimed to elucidate the combined contribution of epigenetic (promoter methylation and chromatin accessibility) and genetic (promoter mutations) mechanisms in regulating TERT gene expression in healthy skin samples and in melanoma cell lines (n = 61). We unexpectedly observed that the methylation of TERTp was as high in a subset of healthy skin cells, mainly keratinocytes, as in cutaneous melanoma cell lines. In spite of the high promoter methylation fraction in wild-type (WT) samples, TERT mRNA was only expressed in the melanoma cell lines with either high methylation or intermediate methylation in combination with TERT mutations. TERTp methylation was positively correlated with chromatin accessibility and TERT mRNA expression in 8 melanoma cell lines. Cooperation between epigenetic and genetic mechanisms were best observed in heterozygous mutant cell lines as chromosome accessibility preferentially concerned the mutant allele. Combined, these results suggest a complex model in which TERT expression requires either a widely open chromatin state in TERTp-WT samples due to high methylation throughout the promoter or a combination of moderate methylation fraction/chromatin accessibility in the presence of the C228T or C250T mutations.
Intrachromosomal gene mapping in man: The gene for tryptophanyl-tRNA synthetase maps in region q21→qter of chromosome 14. A gene for tryptophanyl-tRNA synthetase (EC 6.1.1.2), the enzyme which attaches tryptophan to its tRNA, has previously been assigned to human chromosome 14 by analysis of man-mouse somatic cell hybrids. We report here a method for the electrophoretic separation of Chinese hamster and human tryptophanyl-tRNA synthetases and its application to a series of independently derived Chinese hamster-human hybrids in which part of the human chromosome 14 has been translocated to the human X chromosome. When this derivative der (X),t(X;14) (Xqter → Xp22::14q21 → 14qter) chromosome carrying the human gene for hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase was selected for and against in cell hybrid lines by the appropriate selective conditions, the human tryptophanyl-tRNA synthetase activity was found to segregate concordantly. These results provide additional confirmation for the assignment of the tryptophanyl-tRNA synthetase gene to human chromosome 14 and define its intrachromosomal location in the region 14q21 → 14qter. Our findings indicate that the genes for tryptophanyl-tRNA synthetase and for ribosomal RNA are not closely linked on chromosome 14.
Intramolecular interaction of yeast TFIIB in transcription control. The general transcription factor TFIIB is a key component in the eukaryotic RNA polymerase II (RNAPII) transcriptional machinery. We have previously shown that a yeast TFIIB mutant (called YR1m4) with four amino acid residues in a species-specific region changed to corresponding human residues affects the expression of genes activated by different activators in vivo. We report here that YR1m4 can interact with several affected activators in vitro. In addition, YR1m4 and other mutants with amino acid alterations within the same region can interact with TATA-binding protein (TBP) and RNAPII normally. However, YR1m4 is defective in supporting activator-independent transcription in assays conducted both in vitro and in vivo. We further demonstrate that the interaction between the C-terminal core domain and the N-terminal region is weakened in YR1m4 and other related TFIIB mutants. These results suggest that the intramolecular interaction property of yeast TFIIB plays an important role in transcription regulation in cells.
Investigating circadian clock gene expression in human tendon biopsies from acute exercise and immobilization studies. Purpose: The discovery of musculoskeletal tissues, including muscle, tendons, and cartilage, as peripheral circadian clocks strongly implicates their role in tissue-specific homeostasis. Age-related dampening and misalignment of the tendon circadian rhythm and its outputs may be responsible for the decline in tendon homeostasis. It is unknown which entrainment signals are responsible for the synchronization of the tendon clock to the light–dark cycle. Methods: We sought to examine any changes in the expression levels of core clock genes (BMAL1, CLOCK, PER2, CRY1, and NR1D1) in healthy human patellar tendon biopsies obtained from three different intervention studies: increased physical activity (leg kicks for 1 h) in young, reduced activity (2 weeks immobilization of one leg) in young, and in old tendons. Results: The expression level of clock genes in human tendon in vivo was very low and a high variation between individuals was found. We were thus unable to detect any differences in core clock gene expression neither after acute exercise nor immobilization. Conclusions: We are unable to find evidence for an effect of exercise or immobilization on circadian clock gene expression in human tendon samples.
Involvement of 5-HT7 receptors in vortioxetine's modulation of circadian rhythms and episodic memory in rodents. Since poor circadian synchrony and cognitive dysfunction have been linked to affective disorders, antidepressants that target key 5-HT (serotonin) receptor subtypes involved in circadian rhythm and cognitive regulation may have therapeutic utility. Vortioxetine is a multimodal antidepressant that inhibits 5-HT1D, 5-HT3, 5-HT7 receptor activity, 5-HT reuptake, and enhances the activity of 5-HT1A and 5-HT1B receptors. In this study, we investigated the effects of vortioxetine on the period length of PER2::LUC expression, circadian behavior, and episodic memory, using tissue explants from genetically modified PER2::LUC mice, locomotor activity rhythm monitoring, and the object recognition test, respectively. Incubation of tissue explants from the suprachiasmatic nucleus of PER2::LUC mice with 0.1 μM vortioxetine increased the period length of PER2 bioluminescence. Monitoring of daily wheel-running activity of Sprague-Dawley rats treated with vortioxetine (10 mg/kg, s.c.), alone or in combination with the 5-HT1A receptor agonist flesinoxan (2.5 mg/kg, s.c.) or the 5-HT7 receptor antagonist SB269970 (30 mg/kg, s.c.), just prior to activity onset revealed significant delays in wheel-running behavior. The increase in circadian period length and the phase delay produced by vortioxetine were abolished in the presence of the 5-HT7 receptor partial agonist AS19. Finally, in the object recognition test, vortioxetine (10 mg/kg, i.p.) increased the time spent exploring the novel object during the retention test and this effect was prevented by AS19 (5 mg/kg, i.p.). In conclusion, the present study shows that vortioxetine, partly via its 5-HT7 receptor antagonism, induced a significant effect on circadian rhythm and presented promnesic properties in rodents.
Involvement of NOS3 in RA-Induced neural differentiation of human NT2/D1 cells. Nitric oxide (NO) plays a key role in neurogenesis as a regulator of cell proliferation and differentiation. NO is synthesized from the amino acid L-arginine by nitric oxide synthases (NOS1, NOS2, and NOS3), which are encoded by separate genes and display different tissue distributions. We used an in vitro model of RA-induced neural differentiation of NT2 cells to examine which of the three NO-synthesizing enzymes is involved in this process. The results revealed a transient induction of NOS3 (known as the constitutively expressed endothelial nitric oxide synthase; eNOS) during the time course of the RA treatment. The peak of gene expression and the nuclear presence of NOS3 protein coincided with cell cycle exit of NT2-derived neuronal precursors. The subsequent analysis of cytosine methylation and histone H3 acetylation of the human NOS3 5′ regulatory sequences indicated that epigenetic modifications, especially upstream of the proximal promoter (-734 to -989, relative to exon 2 TSS at +1), were also taking place. NOS1 was expressed only in the differentiated neurons (NT2-N), whereas NOS2 was not expressed at all in this cellular model. Thus, a burst of NO production, possibly required to inhibit neural cell proliferation, was generated by the transient expression of NOS3. This pattern of gene expression, in turn, required epigenetic remodeling of its regulatory region.
Involvement of capsular polysaccharide via a TLR2/NF-κB pathway in Vibrio vulnificus-induced IL-8 secretion of human intestinal epithelial cells. In a previous study, we reported that a wbpP gene mutation in Vibrio vulnificus was significantly impaired in its ability to synthesize surface capsular polysaccharide (CPS). In this study, we evaluated the functions of the V. vulnificus capsular polysaccharide on interleukin (IL)-8 production, as well as its underlying mechanisms in human intestinal epithelial cells. The CPS-defective wbpP mutant induced significantly lower levels of IL-8 production, IL-8 gene promoter activation and NF-κB activity in INT-407 cells than was noted with the wild-type or wbpP-complemented V. vulnificus. The expression levels of Toll-like receptor (TLR)2 mRNA and protein were also found to be lower in INT-407 cells infected with the CPS-defective wbpP mutant than in those cells infected with the wild-type or the wbpP-complemented strains. Additionally, the treatment of INT-407 cells with anti-TLR2 antibody proved to significantly block IL-8 production and NF-κB minimal promoter activity induced by the wild-type or the wbpP-complemented strains. Furthermore, purified V. vulnificus CPS was found to significantly induce IL-8 production and NF-κB activation, both of which were inhibited upon the addition of the anti-TLR2 antibody. Taken together, these results demonstrate that V. vulnificus capsular polysaccharide is involved in the induction of IL-8 production of human intestinal epithelial cells via a TLR2/NF-κB-dependent pathway.
Is multiple sclerosis progression associated with the HLA-DR15 haplotype?. Background: The prevalence of multiple sclerosis is associated with the major histocompatibility complex class II DR15 haplotype HLA-DRB1*15:01∼HLA-DRB5*01:01. Objective: To assess whether multiple sclerosis progression is associated with the main susceptibility haplotype HLA-DRB1*15:01∼HLA-DRB5*01:01. Methods: Patients (n = 1230) and healthy controls (n = 2110) were genotyped for HLA-DRB1 and HLA-DRB5. The baseline Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) score was determined and patients were followed for at least 3 years. Results: After follow-up of the consecutive cohort 349 patients were classified as having clinical isolated syndrome and 881 patients as having multiple sclerosis. The susceptibility allele HLA-DRB1*15:01 was more frequent in clinical isolated syndrome (odds ratio 1.56) and multiple sclerosis (odds ratio 3.17) compared to controls. HLA- DRB1*15:01 was the only enriched HLA-DRB1 allele in multiple sclerosis patients. Comparison of clinical characteristics between HLA-DRB1*15:01∼HLA-DRB5*01:01 negative and positive patients with multiple sclerosis showed that baseline EDSS score, disease duration and frequency of the category secondary progressive multiple sclerosis with relapse were increased in the HLA-DRB1*15:01∼HLA-DRB5*01:01 positive group. Conclusion: The study confirmed HLA-DRB1*15:01 and HLA-DRB5*01:01 as the main susceptibility alleles and showed weak indirect evidence for a role in progression of the disease.
Isolation of CD34+ human melanocyte stem cells from hair follicles. Background: Melanocytes are specialized neural crest-derived cells. They are responsible for hair, skin and eye pigmentation, so they are specialized pigment-producing cells. Melanoblasts are localized in the bulge region of the hair follicle can transform into melanocyte stem cells (MelSCs) or differentiated melanocytes, which produce melanin pigment. It holds promise for functional therapeutic potential and development for the future cell-based therapy of various diseases caused by defective pigment cells like vitiligo. The aim of this study was to isolate melanocyte stem cells from human hair follicle. Methods: The MelSCs CD34+ population was isolated by MagCellect Magnet and assessed for melanocyte stem cell markers by flow cytometry. Results: Results revealed that the isolated CD34+ melanocyte stem cells exhibited higher expression for melanocyte stem cells markers dopachrome tautomerase (DCT) and microphthalmia associated transcription factor (MITF) and differentiation markers melanocytic antigen (PNL2) and tyrosinase (TYR). Conclusion: The study revealed an efficient method of isolation of melanocyte stem cells. The cells were confirmed for their characteristics by flow cytometry analysis of positive and negative markers. Functional analyses of the isolated cells would further confirm its usage in cellular therapies for treatment of skin pigmentation disorders.
JPO1/CDCA7, a novel transcription factor E2F1-induced protein, possesses intrinsic transcriptional regulator activity. JPO1/CDCA7 was originally identified as a c-Myc-responsive gene that participates in neoplastic transformation. Here, we report the identification of JPO1/CDCA7 as a direct transcriptional target of transcription factor E2F1. We demonstrated that overexpression of E2F1 by adenoviral-mediated gene transfer upregulated JPO1/CDCA7 mRNA expression in human cells. Analysis of human and mouse JPO1/CDCA7 promoter constructs showed that an E2F-responsive sequence was necessary for E2F1-induced activation of the JPO1/CDCA7 gene transcription. Among the members of the E2F family, E2F1 to E2F4, but not E2F5 or E2F6, activated the JPO1/CDCA7 reporter construct. Chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis demonstrated that E2F1, E2F2, and E2F4 specifically bound to an E2F-responsive sequence of the human JPO1/CDCA7 gene. Like JPO2/R1, which has a homologous transcriptional regulator domain, the C-terminal cysteine-rich region of JPO1/CDCA7 protein induced transcriptional activity in a mammalian one-hybrid assay. Taken together, our results suggest that JPO1/CDCA7 is a unique transcription regulator whose expression is activated by E2F1 as well as c-Myc.
Knockdown of GCF2/LRRFIP1 by RNAi causes cell growth inhibition and increased apoptosis in human hepatoma HepG2 Cells. Background: GC-binding factor 2 (GCF2) is a transcriptional regulator that represses transcriptional activity of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) by binding to a specific GC-rich sequence in the EGFR gene promoter. In addition to this function, GCF2 has also been identified as a tumor-associated antigen and regarded as a potentially valuable serum biomarker for early human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) diagnosis. GCF2 is high expressed in most HCC tissues and cell lines including HepG2. This study focused on the influence of GCF2 on cell proliferation and apoptosis in HepG2 cells. Materials and Methods: GCF2 expression at both mRNA and protein levels in HepG2 cells was detected with reverse transcription (RT) PCR and Western blotting, respectively. RNA interference (RNAi) technology was used to knock down GCF2 mRNA and protein expression. Afterwards, cell viability was analyzed with a Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), and cell apoptosis and caspase 3 activity by flow cytometry and with a Caspase 3 Activity Kit, respectively. Results: Specific down-regulation of GCF2 expression caused cell growth inhibition, and increased apoptosis and caspase 3 activity in HepG2 cells. Conclusions: These primary results suggest that GCF2 may influence cell proliferation and apoptosis in HepG2 cells, and also provides a molecular basis for further investigation into the possible mechanism at proliferation and apoptosis in HCC.
Knockdown of ZNF268, which is transcriptionally downregulated by GATA-1, promotes proliferation of K562 cells. The human ZNF268 gene encodes a typical KRAB-C2H2 zinc finger protein that may participate in hematopoiesis and leukemogenesis. A recent microarray study revealed that ZNF268 expression continuously decreases during erythropoiesis. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying regulation of ZNF268 during hematopoiesis are not well understood. Here we found that GATA-1, a master regulator of erythropoiesis, repressed the promoter activity and transcription of ZNF268. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays and chromatin immunoprecipitation assays showed that GATA-1 directly bound to a GATA binding site in the ZNF268 promoter in vitro and in vivo. Knockdown of ZNF268 in K562 erythroleukemia cells with specific siRNA accelerated cellular proliferation, suppressed apoptosis, and reduced expression of erythroid-specific developmental markers. It also promoted growth of subcutaneous K562-derived tumors in nude mice. These results suggest that ZNF268 is a crucial downstream target and effector of GATA-1. They also suggest the downregulation of ZNF268 by GATA-1 is important in promoting the growth and suppressing the differentiation of K562 erythroleukemia cells.
Knockdown of long noncoding RNA HOXA-AS2 suppresses chemoresistance of acute myeloid leukemia via the miR-520c-3p/S100A4 Axis. Background/Aims: Among different molecular candidates, there is growing data to support that long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) play a significant role in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). HOXA-AS2 is significantly overexpressed in a variety of tumors and associated with anti-cancer drug resistance, however, little is known regarding the expression and function of HOXA-AS2 in the chemoresistance of AML. In this study, we aimed to determine the role and molecular mechanism of HOXA-AS2 in adriamycin-based chemotherapy resistance in AML cells. Methods: Quantitative real-time PCR was used to detect HOXA-AS2 expression in the BM samples and ADR cell lines, U/A and T/A cells. Furthermore, the effects of HOXA-AS2 silencing on cell proliferation and apoptosis were assessed in vitro by CCK8 and flow cytometry, and on tumor growth in vivo. Furthermore, bioinformatics online programs predicted and luciferase reporter assay were used to validate the association of HOXA-AS2 and miR-520c-3p in AML. Results: In this study, we showed that HOXA-AS2 is significantly upregulated in BM samples from AML patients after treatment with adriamycin-based chemotherapy and in U/A and T/A cells. Knockdown of HOXA-AS2 inhibited ADR cell proliferation in vitro and in vivo and promoted apoptosis. Bioinformatics online programs predicted that HOXA-AS2 sponge miR-520c-3p at 3'-UTR with complementary binding sites, which was validated using luciferase reporter assay and anti-Ago2 RIP assay. HOXA-AS2 could negatively regulate the expression of miR-520c-3p in ADR cells. S100A4 was predicted as a downstream target of miR-520c-3p, which was confirmed by luciferase reporter assay. Conclusion: Our results suggest that HOXA-AS2 plays an important role in the resistance of AML cells to adriamycin. Thus, HOXA-AS2 may represent a therapeutic target for overcoming resistance to adriamycin-based chemotherapy in AML.
Kruppel-like factor KLF10 targets transforming growth factor-β1 to regulate CD4+ CD25- T cells and T regulatory cells. CD4+CD25+ regulatory T cells (T regs) play a major role in the maintenance of self-tolerance and immune suppression, although the mechanisms controlling T reg development and suppressor function remain incompletely understood. Herein, we provide evidence that Kruppel-like factor 10 (KLF10/TIEG1) constitutes an important regulator of T regulatory cell suppressor function and CD4+CD25+ T cell activation through distinct mechanisms involving transforming growth factor (TGF)-β1 and Foxp3. KLF10 overexpressing CD4+CD25- T cells induced both TGF-β1 and Foxp3 expression, an effect associated with reduced T-Bet (Th1 marker) and Gata3 (Th2 marker) mRNA expression. Consistently, KLF10-/- CD4+CD25- T cells have enhanced differentiation along both Th1 and Th2 pathways and elaborate higher levels of Th1 and Th2 cytokines. Furthermore, KLF10-/- CD4+CD25- T cell effectors cannot be appropriately suppressed by wild-type T regs. Surprisingly, KLF10-/- T reg cells have reduced suppressor function, independent of Foxp3 expression, with decreased expression and elaboration of TGF-β1, an effect completely rescued by exogenous treatment with TGF-β1. Mechanistic studies demonstrate that in response to TGF-β1, KLF10 can transactivate both TGF-β1 and Foxp3 promoters, implicating KLF10 in a positive feedback loop that may promote cell-intrinsic control of T cell activation. Finally, KLF10-/- CD4+CD25- T cells promoted atherosclerosis by ∼2-fold in ApoE-/-/scid/scid mice with increased leukocyte accumulation and peripheral pro-inflammatory cytokines. Thus, KLF10 is a critical regulator in the transcriptional network controlling TGF-β1 in both CD4+CD25- T cells and T regs and plays an important role in regulating atherosclerotic lesion formation in mice.
Ku70/80 gene expression and DNA-dependent protein kinase (DNA-PK) activity do not correlate with double-strand break (dsb) repair capacity and cellular radiosensitivity in normal human fibroblasts. The expression of the Ku70 and Ku80 genes as well as the activity of the DNA-dependent protein kinase (DNA-PK) were studied in 11 normal human fibroblast lines. The proteins studied are known to be part of a double-strand break (dsb) repair complex involved in non-homologous recombination, as was demonstrated for the radiosensitive rodent mutant cell lines of the complementation groups 5-7. The 11 fibroblast lines used in this study represent a typical spectrum of normal human radiosensitivity with the surviving fraction measured for a dose of 3.5 Gy, SF(3.5 Gy), ranging from 0.03 to 0.28. These differences in cell survival were previously shown to correlate with the number of non-repaired dsbs. We found that the mRNA signal intensities of both Ku70 and Ku80 genes were fairly similar for the 11 cell lines investigated. In addition, the DNA-PK activity determined by the pulldown assay was fairly constant in these fibroblast lines. Despite the correlation between cell survival and dsb repair capacity, there was no correlation between dsb repair capacity and DNA-PK activity in the tested normal human fibroblast lines. Obviously, in this respect, other proteins/pathways appear to be more relevant.
Kv1.5 channelopathy due to KCNA5 loss-of-function mutation causes human atrial fibrillation. Atrial fibrillation is a rhythm disorder characterized by chaotic electrical activity of cardiac atria. Predisposing to stroke and heart failure, this common condition is increasingly recognized as a heritable disorder. To identify genetic defects conferring disease susceptibility, patients with idiopathic atrial fibrillation, lacking traditional risk factors, were evaluated. Genomic DNA scanning revealed a nonsense mutation in KCNA5 that encodes Kv1.5, a voltage-gated potassium channel expressed in human atria. The heterozygous E375X mutation, present in a familial case of atrial fibrillation and absent in 540 unrelated control individuals, introduced a premature stop codon disrupting the Kv1.5 channel protein. The truncation eliminated the S4-S6 voltage sensor, pore region and C-terminus, preserving the N-terminus and S1-S3 transmembrane domains that secure tetrameric subunit assembly. Heterologously expressed recombinant E375X mutant failed to generate the ultrarapid delayed rectifier current IKur vital for atrial repolarization and exerted a dominant-negative effect on wild-type current. Loss of channel function translated into action potential prolongation and early after-depolarization in human atrial myocytes, increasing vulnerability to stress-provoked triggered activity. The pathogenic link between compromised Kv1.5 function and susceptibility to atrial fibrillation was verified, at the organism level, in a murine model. Rescue of the genetic defect was achieved by aminoglycoside-induced translational read-through of the E375X premature stop codon, restoring channel function. This first report of Kv1.5 loss-of-function channelopathy establishes KCNA5 mutation as a novel risk factor for repolarization deficiency and atrial fibrillation.
LPS-induced IL-8 activation in human intestinal epithelial cells is accompanied by specific histone H3 acetylation and methylation changes. Background. The release of LPS by bacteria stimulates both immune and specific epithelial cell types to release inflammatory mediators. It is known that LPS induces the release of IL-8 by intestinal mucosal cells. Because it is now emerging that bacteria may induce alteration of epigenetic patterns in host cells, we have investigated whether LPS-induced IL-8 activation in human intestinal epithelial cells involves changes of histone modifications and/or DNA methylation at IL-8 gene regulatory region. Results. RT-PCR analysis showed that IL-8 mRNA levels rapidly increase after exposure of HT-29 cells to LPS. DNA demethylating agents had no effects on IL-8 expression, suggesting that DNA methylation was not involved in IL-8 gene regulation. Consistently we found that 5 CpG sites located around IL-8 transcription start site (-83,-7, +73, +119, +191) were unmethylated on both lower and upper strand either in LPS treated or in untreated HT-29 cells, as well as in normal intestinal mucosa. Conversely, pretreatment of HT-29 cells with deacetylase inhibitors strengthened the LPS-mediated IL-8 activation. Inhibitors of histone deacetylases could induce IL-8 mRNA expression also in the absence of LPS, suggesting that chromatin modifications could be involved in IL-8 gene regulation. Chromatin immunoprecipitation analyses showed that, concurrently with IL-8 activation, transient specific changes in H3 acetylation and H3K4, H3K9 and H3K27 methylation occurred at IL-8 gene promoter during LPS stimulation. Changes of H3-acetyl, H3K4me2 and H3K9me2 levels occurred early, transiently and corresponded to transcriptional activity, while changes of H3K27me3 levels at IL-8 gene occurred later and were long lasting. Conclusion. The results showed that specific chromatin modifications occurring at IL-8 gene, including histone H3 acetylation and methylation, mark LPS-mediated IL-8 activation in intestinal epithelial cells while it is unlikely that DNA methylation of IL-8 promoter is directly involved in IL-8 gene regulation in these cells.
Lack of association between three common genetic variations of XPC and susceptibility to age-related macular degeneration, a preliminary study. Background: Numerous association studies have indicated that genetic alterations in genes involved in DNA repair processes are associated with the risk of age-related macular degeneration (ARMD). There is no published study on the relationship between common xeroderma pigmentosum complementation group C (XPC, MIM 613208) polymorphisms and susceptibility to ARMD. The aim of this study is to determine whether three common (Ala499Val, Lys939Gln, and PAT) genetic variants of XPC are associated with the risk of developing ARMD. A total of 120 ARMD patients and 118 healthy controls were included in the study. Genotyping analyses were carried out by PCR-based methods. Results: Our analysis revealed that there was no relationship between the XPC polymorphisms and susceptibility to ARMD. In both case and control groups, strong linkage disequilibrium existed between three common (Ala499Val, Lys939Gln, and PAT) genetic polymorphisms of XPC. Statistical analysis showed no association between the haplotypes and the risk of ARMD. Conclusions: The present data indicated that the common polymorphisms of XPC are not susceptible genetic variations for ARMD.
Lack of casein kinase 1 delta promotes genomic instability - The accumulation of DNA damage and down-regulation of checkpoint kinase 1. Casein kinase 1 delta (CK1δ) is a conserved serine/threonine protein kinase that regulates diverse cellular processes. Mice lacking CK1δ have a perinatal lethal phenotype and typically weigh 30% less than their wild type littermates. However, the causes of death and small size are unknown. We observed cells with abnormally large nuclei in tissue from Csnk1d null embryos, and multiple centrosomes in mouse embryo fibroblasts (MEFs) deficient in CK1δ (MEFCsnk1d null). Results from γ-H2AX staining and the comet assay demonstrated significant DNA damage in MEFCsnk1d null cells. These cells often contain micronuclei, an indicator of genomic instability. Similarly, abrogation of CK1δ expression in control MEFs stimulated micronuclei formation after doxorubicin treatment, suggesting that CK1δ loss increases vulnerability to genotoxic stress. Cellular levels of total and activated checkpoint kinase 1 (Chk1), which functions in the DNA damage response and mitotic checkpoints, and its downstream effector, Cdc2/CDK1 kinase, were often decreased in MEFCsnk1d null cells as well as in control MEFs transfected with CK1δ siRNA. Hydroxyurea-induced Chk1 activation, as measured by Ser345 phosphorylation, and nuclear localization also were impaired in MEF cells following siRNA knockdown of CK1δ. Similar results were observed in the MCF7 human breast cancer cell line. The decreases in phosphorylated Chk1 were rescued by concomitant expression of siRNA-resistant CK1δ. Experiments with cycloheximide demonstrated that the stability of Chk1 protein was diminished in cells subjected to CK1δ knockdown. Together, these findings suggest that CK1δ contributes to the efficient repair of DNA damage and the proper functioning of mitotic checkpoints by maintaining appropriate levels of Chk1.
Large-scale de novo prediction of physical protein-protein association. Information about the physical association of proteins is extensively used for studying cellular processes and disease mechanisms. However, complete experimental mapping of the human interactome will remain prohibitively difficult in the near future. Here we present a map of predicted human protein interactions that distinguishes functional association from physical binding. Our network classifies more than 5 million protein pairs predicting 94,009 new interactions with high confidence. We experimentally tested a subset of these predictions using yeast two-hybrid analysis and affinity purification followed by quantitative mass spectrometry. Thus we identified 462 new protein-protein interactions and confirmed the predictive power of the network. These independent experiments address potential issues of circular reasoning and are a distinctive feature of this work. Analysis of the physical interactome unravels subnetworks mediating between different functional and physical subunits of the cell. Finally, we demonstrate the utility of the network for the analysis of molecular mechanisms of complex diseases by applying it to genome-wide association studies of neurodegenerative diseases. This analysis provides new evidence implying TOMM40 as a factor involved in Alzheimer's disease. The network provides a high-quality resource for the analysis of genomic data sets and genetic association studies in particular. Our interactome is available via the hPRINT web server at: .
LatY136F knock-in mouse model for human IgG4-related disease. Background The adaptor protein Linker for activation of T cell (LAT) is a key signaling hub used by the T cell antigen receptor. Mutant mice expressing loss-of-function mutations affecting LAT and including a mutation in which tyrosine 136 is replaced by a phenylalanine (LatY136F) develop lymphoproliferative disorder involving T helper type 2 effector cells capable of triggering a massive polyclonal B cell activation that leads to hypergammaglobulinemia G1 and E and to non-resolving inflammation and autoimmunity. The purpose of this study was to evaluate whether the phenotypes of LatY136F knock-in mice resemble the immunohistopathological features of immunoglobulin G4-related disease (IgG4-RD). Methods LatY136F knock-in mice were sacrificed at 4–20 weeks of age, and pancreas, kidney, salivary gland and lung were obtained. All organs were stained with hematoxylin-eosin and with Azan for estimation of collagen in fibrosis, and the severity scores of inflammation and fibrosis were evaluated. Immunostainings were performed to analyze the types of infiltrating cells. In addition, the effects of corticosteroid treatment on the development of tissue lesions and serum levels of IgG1 were assessed. Results Tissue lesions characterized by inflammatory mononuclear cell infiltration and fibrosis were detected in pancreas, kidney, and salivary gland starting from 6 weeks of age. Immunostainings showed pronounced infiltration of plasma cells, CD4-positive T cells, and macrophages. Infiltrating plasma cells predominantly expressed IgG1. The extent of inflammation in pancreas and salivary glands was markedly reduced by corticosteroid treatment. Conclusions LatY136F knock-in mice displayed increased production of Th2-type IgG1 (a homologue of human IgG4) and developed multiple organ tissue lesions reminiscent of those seen in patients with IgG4-RD. Moreover, the development of these tissue lesions was highly sensitive to corticosteroid treatment like in IgG4-RD. For these reasons we consider the LatY136F knock-in mouse strain to represent a promising model for human IgG4-RD.
Leucyl-tRNA Synthetase Controls TORC1 via the EGO Complex. The target of rapamycin complex 1 (TORC1) is an essential regulator of eukaryotic cell growth that responds to growth factors, energy levels, and amino acids. The mechanisms through which the preeminent amino acid leucine signals to the TORC1-regulatory Rag GTPases, which activate TORC1 within the yeast EGO complex (EGOC) or the structurally related mammalian Rag-Ragulator complex, remain elusive. We find that the leucyl-tRNA synthetase (LeuRS) Cdc60 interacts with the Rag GTPase Gtr1 of the EGOC in a leucine-dependent manner. This interaction is necessary and sufficient to mediate leucine signaling to TORC1 and is disrupted by the engagement of Cdc60 in editing mischarged tRNA Leu. Thus, the EGOC-TORC1 signaling module samples, via the LeuRS-intrinsic editing domain, the fidelity of tRNA Leu aminoacylation as a proxy for leucine availability.
Lineage Tracing of Inducible Fluorescently-Labeled Stem Cells in the Adult Mouse Brain. A telomerase reverse transcriptase (Tert) lineage-tracing mouse line was developed to investigate the behavior and fate of adult tissue stem cells, by crossing the 'Tet-On' system oTet-Cre mouse with a novel reverse tetracycline transactivator (rtTA) transgene linked to the Tert promoter, which we have demonstrated marks a novel population of adult brain stem cells. Here, administration of the tetracycline derivative doxycycline to mTert-rtTA::oTet-Cre mice will indelibly mark a population of cells that express a 4.4 kb fragment of the promoter region of the gene Tert. When combined the Rosa-mTmG reporter, mTert-rtTA::oTet-Cre::Rosa-mTmG mice will express membrane tdTomato (mTomato) until doxycycline treatment induces the replacement of mTomato expression with membrane EGFP (mGFP) in cells that also express Tert. Therefore, when these triple-transgenic lineage tracing mice receive doxycycline (the "pulse" period during which TERT expressing cells are marked), these cells will become indelibly marked mGFP+ cells, which can be tracked for any desirable amount of time after doxycycline removal (the "chase" period), even if Tert expression is subsequently lost. Brains are then perfusion-fixed and processed for immunofluorescence and other downstream applications in order to interpret changes to stem cell activation, proliferation, lineage commitment, migration to various brain niches, and differentiation to mature cell types. Using this system, any rtTA mouse can be mated to oTet-Cre and a Rosa reporter to conduct doxycycline-inducible "pulsechase" lineage tracing experiments using markers of stem cells.
Lineage-specific DNA methylation in T cells correlates with histone methylation and enhancer activity. DNA methylation participates in establishing and maintaining chromatin structures and regulates gene transcription during mammalian development and cellular differentiation. With few exceptions, research thus far has focused on gene promoters, and little is known about the extent, functional relevance, and regulation of cell type-specific DNA methylation at promoter-distal sites. Here, we present a comprehensive analysis of differential DNA methylation in human conventional CD4+ T cells (Tconv) and CD4+CD25+ regulatory T cells (Treg), cell types whose differentiation and function are known to be controlled by epigenetic mechanisms. Using a novel approach that is based on the separation of a genome into methylated and unmethylated fractions, we examined the extent of lineage-specific DNA methylation across whole gene loci. More than 100 differentially methylated regions (DMRs) were identified that are present mainly in cell type-specific genes (e.g., FOXP3, IL2RA, CTLA4, CD40LG, and IFNG) and show differential patterns of histone H3 lysine 4 methylation. Interestingly, the majority of DMRs were located at promoter-distal sites, and many of these areas harbor DNA methylation-dependent enhancer activity in reporter gene assays. Thus, our study provides a comprehensive, locuswide analysis of lineage-specific methylation patterns in Treg and Tconv cells, links cell type-specific DNA methylation with histone methylation and regulatory function, and identifies a number of cell type-specific, CpG methylation-sensitive enhancers in immunologically relevant genes.
Liposome-polyethylenimine complexes for enhanced DNA and siRNA delivery. The efficient delivery of nucleic acids into cells is critical for successful gene therapy or gene knockdown. Polyethylenimines (PEIs) are positively charged polymers which complex and deliver DNA for gene transfection or small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) for the induction of RNA interference (RNAi), and mediate their endosomal release. Likewise, various liposomes act as transfection reagents, with some lipids showing increased endocytosis and influencing endosomal escape. This study combines the favourable properties of PEI and lipid systems for DNA and siRNA delivery. Various lipids and lipid combinations, which cover a broad range of physicochemical properties and form optimal liposomes, are assessed. By addition of the liposomes to pre-formed polyplexes, based on the low molecular weight PEI F25-LMW, we establish liposome-PEI complexes (lipopolyplexes) and characterise them in comparison to their 'parent' polyplexes and liposomes regarding size, shape and zeta-potential. Furthermore, while the lipidation of polyplexes generally decreases their toxicity, our studies on DNA transfection and siRNA-mediated knockdown also establish certain lipopolyplexes based on rigid, negatively charged lipids as particularly efficient vehicles for nucleic acid delivery, further improving DNA transfection. The analysis of their mechanism and kinetics of cellular uptake confirms that the biological properties of lipopolyplexes are mainly determined by the liposome shell. We conclude that certain lipopolyplexes show improved biological properties over PEI complexes, thus representing potentially attractive non-viral vectors for gene therapy and RNAi.
LncRNA DANCR functions as a competing endogenous RNA to regulate RAB1A expression by sponging MIR-634 in glioma. Long noncoding RNA (lncRNA) differentiation antagonizing nonprotein coding RNA (DANCR) plays important regulatory roles in many solid tumors. However, the effect of DANCR in glioma progression and underlying molecular mechanisms were not entirely explored. In the present study, we determined the expression of DANCR in glioma tissues and cell lines using qRT-PCR and further defined the biological functions. Furthermore, we used luciferase reporter assay, Western blot, and RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP) to explore the underlying mechanism. Our results showed that DANCR was significantly up-regulated in glioma tissues and cell lines (U251, U118, LN229, and U87MG). High DANCR expression was correlated with advanced tumor grade. Inhibition of DANCR suppressed the glioma cells proliferation and induced cells arrested in the G0/G1 phase. In addition, we verified that DANCR could directly interact with miR-634 in glioma cells and this interaction resulted in the inhibition of downstream of RAB1A expression. The present study demonstrated that DANCR/miR-634/RAB1A axis plays crucial roles in the progression of glioma, and DANCR might potentially serve as a therapeutic target for the treatment of glioma patients.
Localization of the histamine H2-receptor and gene transcripts in rat stomach: Back to parietal cells. In contrast with many physiological studies suggesting that histamine H2 receptors are present on acid-secreting parietal cells of the gastric epithelium, it was recently shown that immune cells in the lamina propria are the only cells expressing H2-receptor mRNAs (Mezey and Palkovits, Science,1992, 258, 1662-1665). We have reinvestigated the cellular localization of H2 receptors in the rat stomach by visualizing both the H2 receptor mRNA and the H2-receptor protein itself. In situ hybridization histochemistry performed with an antisense riboprobe for the rat H2 receptor, and autoradiographic distribution of 125I-aminopotentidine binding sites, a highly selective H2-receptor ligand, did not show any labeling of the lamina propria. Signals were clearly and solely detected in the gastric epithelium, the strongest being observed in the upper part of the glands where the H2 receptor gene transcripts were only detected within parietal cells. In situ hybridization performed with an antisense riboprobe for L-histidine decarboxylase mRNA confirmed the basal localization of the histamine-synthetizing cells in the rat gastric gland, at some distance from parietal histamine-sensitive cells.
Localization, shedding, regulation and function of aminopeptidase N/CD13 on fibroblast like synoviocytes. Aminopeptidase N/CD13 is highly expressed by fibroblast like synoviocytes (FLS) and may play a role in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). CD13 was previously detected in human synovial fluid where it was significantly increased in RA compared to osteoarthritis. In this study we found that CD13 in biological fluids (plasma, synovial fluid, FLS culture supernatant) is present as both a soluble molecule and on extracellular vesicles, including exosomes, as assessed by differential ultracentrifugation and density gradient separation. Having determined CD13 could be released as a soluble molecule from FLS, we examined potential mechanisms by which CD13 might be shed from the FLS membrane. The use of protease inhibitors revealed that CD13 is cleaved from the FLS surface by metalloproteinases. siRNA treatment of FLS revealed one of those proteases to be MMP14. We determined that pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNFα, IFNγ, IL-17) upregulated CD13 mRNA in FLS, which may contribute to the increased CD13 in RA synovium and synovial fluid. Inhibition of CD13 function by either inhibitors of enzymatic activity or anti-CD13 antibodies resulted in decreased growth and diminished migration of FLS. This suggests that CD13 may be involved in the pathogenic hyperplasia of RA FLS. This data expands potential roles for CD13 in the pathogenesis of RA.
Long Noncoding RNA CBR3-AS1 Promotes Stem-like Properties and Oxaliplatin Resistance of Colorectal Cancer by Sponging miR-145-5p. Accumulating articles indicate that long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) serve as essential regulators in a plethora of human cancers. In this study, we analyzed the expression profile and functional role of lncRNA CBR3-AS1 in colorectal cancer (CRC). High-expression levels of CBR3-AS1 were found in CRC tissues and cell lines. Upregulated CBR3-AS1 was closely associated with poor prognosis and adverse clinicopathological features of CRC patients. Artificial knockdown of CBR3-AS1 markedly suppressed the proliferation, migration, invasion, and stem-like properties but promoted the apoptosis of CRC cells. Moreover, we observed that CBR3-AS1 could directly bind to miR-145-5p and negatively regulated its expression in CRC. Further experiments also demonstrated that inhibition of miR-145-5p reverted the effects of CBR3-AS1 knockdown on CRC cells. In addition, compared with the parental cells, CBR3-AS1 expression was strikingly increased in oxaliplatin- (OXA-) resistant CRC cells, and the OXA resistance was notably diminished by CBR3-AS1 knockdown. To conclude, our study suggested that CBR3-AS1 serves an oncogenic role in CRC and may be exploited as a novel therapeutic target for CRC patients.
Long non-coding RNA MEG3 inhibits cell proliferation and induces apoptosis in prostate cancer. Background/Aims: Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) play important roles in diverse biological processes, such as cell growth, apoptosis and migration. Although downregulation of lncRNA maternally expressed gene 3 (MEG3) has been identified in several cancers, little is known about its role in prostate cancer progression. The aim of this study was to detect MEG3 expression in clinical prostate cancer tissues, investigate its biological functions in the development of prostate cancer and the underlying mechanism. Methods: MEG3 expression levels were detected by qRT-PCR in both tumor tissues and adjacent non-tumor tissues from 21 prostate cancer patients. The effects of MEG3 on PC3 and DU145 cells were assessed by MTT assay, colony formation assay, western blot and flow cytometry. Transfected PC3 cells were transplanted into nude mice, and the tumor growth curves were determined. Results: MEG3 decreased significantly in prostate cancer tissues relative to adjacent normal tissues. MEG3 inhibited intrinsic cell survival pathway in vitro and in vivo by reducing the protein expression of Bcl-2, enhancing Bax and activating caspase 3. We further demonstrated that MEG3 inhibited the expression of cell cycle regulatory protein Cyclin D1 and induced cell cycle arrest in G0/G1 phase. Conclusions: Our study presents an important role of MEG3 in the molecular etiology of prostate cancer and implicates the potential application of MEG3 in prostate cancer therapy.
Long non-coding RNA MEG3 promotes the proliferation of glioma cells through targeting Wnt/β-catenin signal pathway. Glioma has been identified as one of the most aggressive primary tumors. Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs), with length larger than 200 bp, have drawn increasing attention to their abnormal expression and regulation function in carcinogenesis. However, the role of lncRNAs in glioma remains largely unknown. Maternally expressed gene 3 (MEG3), also known as gene-trap locus 2 (GTL2), is an imprinted gene, and is encoded by the MEG3 transcript of the DLK1/MEG3 locus on human chromosome, or Meg3 on mouse chromosome. In this study, we found that lncRNA MEG3 was significantly downregulated in malignant glioma tissues and cell lines. The employment of the loss-of and gain-of functions assays presented that MEG3 suppressed glioma cells proliferation and induced cell-cycle arrest. Furthermore, our findings showed that highly expressed MEG3 could weaken Wnt/β-catenin signaling in glioma. Collectively, our findings revealed that downregulated lncRNA MEG3 could promote glioma cell proliferation through targeting Wnt/β-catenin signaling, which mainly influenced cell cycle.
Long non-coding RNA XIST promotes extracellular matrix degradation by functioning as a competing endogenous RNA of miR-1277-5p in osteoarthritis. Osteoarthritis (OA) is a common and troublesome disease among the elderly, and is characterized by extracellular matrix (ECM) degradation. The function of the long non-coding RNA X-inactive-specific transcript (XIST) and its working mechanism in ECM degradation remains unclear. In the present study, XIST was revealed to be upregulated in OA specimens and in articular chondrocytes (ACs) derived from OA tissue (AC/OA) and interleukin-1β (IL-1β)-treated ACs. Loss-of-function experiments demonstrated that downregulation of XIST suppressed the degradation of the ECM in AC/OA and AC/IL-1β-5.0 cells. Furthermore, XIST, matrix metalloproteinase 13 (MMP-13) and ADAM metallopeptidase with thrombospondin type 1 motif 5 (ADAMTS5) were identified as targets of microRNA (miR)-1277-5p, and the reciprocal inhibitive effect between XIST and miR-1277-5p was elucidated. Furthermore, the role of XIST in ECM degradation was confirmed to be functioning as a competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) of miR-1277-5p. Finally, the protective effect of the downregulation of XIST on ECM degradation was verified in an OA rat model. In conclusion, the present study suggests that XIST promotes MMP-13 and ADAMTS5 expression, indicating ECM degradation, by functioning as a ceRNA of miR-1277-5p in OA. The present study proposed a novel potential target with a new working mechanism in molecular treating of OA.
Long non-coding RNA urothelial cancer-associated 1 promotes bladder cancer cell migration and invasion by way of the hsa-miR-145-ZEB1/2-FSCN1 pathway. Numerous studies suggest that several long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) play critical roles in bladder cancer development and progression. Long non-coding RNA urothelial cancer-associated 1 (lncRNA-UCA1) is highly expressed in bladder cancer tissues and cells, and it has been shown to play an important role in regulating aggressive phenotypes of bladder cancer cells. However, little is known about the molecular mechanism of lncRNA-UCA1-mediated bladder cancer cell migration and invasion. Here, we show that overexpression of lncRNA-UCA1 could induce EMT and increase the migratory and invasive abilities of bladder cancer cells. Mechanistically, lncRNA-UCA1 induced EMT of bladder cancer cells by upregulating the expression levels of zinc finger E-box binding homeobox 1 and 2 (ZEB1 and ZEB2), and regulated bladder cancer cell migration and invasion by tumor suppressive hsa-miR-145 and its target gene the actin-binding protein fascin homologue 1 (FSCN1). Furthermore, we also observed a positive correlation between lncRNA-UCA1 and ZEB1/2 expression, and a negative correlation between lncRNA-UCA1 and hsa-miR-145 expression in bladder cancer specimens. Importantly, we found that lncRNA-UCA1 repressed hsa-miR-145 expression to upregulate ZEB1/2, whereas the suppression of hsa-miR-145 could upregulate lncRNA-UCA1 expression in bladder cancer cells. Moreover, the binding site for hsa-miR-145 within exons 2 and 3 of lncRNA-UCA1 contributed to the reciprocal negative regulation of lncRNA-UCA1 and hsa-miR-145. Taken together, our results identified that lncRNA-UCA1 enhances bladder cancer cell migration and invasion in part through the hsa-miR-145/ZEB1/2/FSCN1 pathway. Therefore, lncRNA-UCA1 might act as a promising therapeutic target for the invasion and metastasis of bladder cancer.
Long noncoding RNA CCAT2 functions as a competitive endogenous RNA to regulate FOXC1 expression by sponging miR-23b-5p in lung adenocarcinoma. Long noncoding RNA (lncRNA) may regulate the process of tumor formation. Although lncRNA CCAT2 has been identified as a key point in many diseases, its pathophysiological mechanism in lung adenocarcinoma remains unknown. We measured the expression level of CCAT2 in lung adenocarcinoma cells and normal lung epithelial cell line BEAS-2B by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). As well, cell migration and proliferation were detected by transwell detection and CCK8 assay. At the same time, the new target point of CCAT2 was confirmed with bioinformatics analysis and dual-luciferase reporter assay. In addition, potential mechanisms were studied by Western blot analysis and RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP) analysis. The expression of CCAT2 was upregulated obviously in lung adenocarcinoma cells. Cell function analysis showed that upregulation of CCAT2 significantly promoted cell proliferation and migration, and reduction of CCAT2 inhibited cell migration and proliferation. In addition, CCAT2 positively regulated the expression of FOXC1 by competitive binding with miR-23b-5p. These findings indicated that CCAT2 may act as a competitive endogenous RNA (ceRNA) to regulate FOXC1 expression by competitively binding miR-23b-5p in lung adenocarcinoma.
Long noncoding RNA DLX6-AS1 promotes tumorigenesis by modulating miR-497-5p/FZD4/ FZD6/Wnt/β-catenin pathway in pancreatic cancer. Background: Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) are abnormally expressed in various human tumors and play an important role in multiple tumorigeneses, including pancreatic cancer (PC). Materials and methods: The present study was designed to evaluate the role of lncRNA DLX6-AS1 in tumorigenesis of PC. The expression of DLX6-AS1 and its effect on proliferation, apoptosis, migration, and invasion was investigated in vitro. Its effect on tumor growth and metastasis in vivo and its potential targets were also examined. Results: We observed that DLX6-AS1 was highly expressed in PC tissues and PC cell lines, and was negatively correlated with the survival of PC patients. We found that overexpression of DLX6-AS1 promoted proliferation, migration, and invasion of PC cells, inhibited apoptosis, increased Bcl-2, cyclin D1, and MMP-2 expression, and decreased cleaved caspase 3, p27, and E-cadherin expression in PC cells. In addition, overexpression of DLX6-AS1 promoted PC growth by increasing tumor volume and weight and increasing the number of liver and lung metastatic foci. Knockdown of DLX6-AS1 showed an opposite effect in all the experiments. miR-497-5p was demonstrated to be a direct target of DLX6-AS1 and was regulated by DLX6- AS1. We also demonstrated that miR-497-5p targeted FZD4 and FZD6 and decreased their expression. miR-497-5p mimics also decreased the expression of FZD4, FZD6, and β-catenin; the expression of FZD4 or FZD6 was reversed by the overexpression of vectors FZD4 or FZD6, respectively, while the expression of β-catenin was reversed by either vector. Finally, the effect of DLX6-AS1 on proliferation, cell cycle, migration, invasion, and apoptosis of cells and expression of FZD4, FZD6, and β-catenin was neutralized by overexpression of vectors of miR-497-5p, FZD4, or FZD6, totally or partially. Conclusion: Collectively, these findings suggested that DLX6-AS1/miR-497-5p/FZD4/FZD6/ Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway is involved in the pathogenesis of PC, and DLX6-AS1 could be a potential biomarker and target for PC treatment.
Long noncoding RNA HOXB13-AS1 regulates HOXB13 gene methylation by interacting with EZH2 in glioma. Dysregulation of long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) has been implicated in human diseases, in particular, cancers. In this study, we determined the expression of an lncRNA, HOXB13-AS1, involving in glioma. We showed that HOXB13-AS1 was significantly upregulated in glioma tissues and cells and was negatively correlated with its surrounding gene HOXB13 levels. Functional experiments in vitro and in vivo revealed that high level of HOXB13-AS1 increased cell proliferation and tumor growth by promoting cell cycle progression. Conversely, knockdown of HOXB13-AS1 resulted in decreased cell proliferation and tumor growth. Mechanistically, we showed that HOXB13-AS1 overexpression increased DNMT3B-mediated methylation of adjacent gene HOXB13 promoter by binding with the enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (EZH2) using bisulfite sequencing PCR (BSP), epigenetically suppressing HOXB13 expression. Additionally, the interaction between HOXB13-AS1 and HOXB13 was validated by RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP) and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assays using antibody against to EZH2. Taken together, our study indicated that HOXB13-AS1 could regulate HOXB13 gene expression by methylation HOXB13 promoter and acts as an epigenetic oncogenic in glioma.
Long non‐coding RNA NEAT1 transported by extracellular vesicles contributes to breast cancer development by sponging microRNA-141-3p and regulating KLF12. Objective: Breast cancer (BC) remains a public-health issue on a global scale. Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) play functional roles in BC. This study focuses on effects of NEAT1 on BC cell invasion, migration and chemotherapy resistance via microRNA (miR)-141-3p and KLF12. Methods: After extraction and identification of serum extracellular vesicles (EVs), NEAT1 expression in EVs was detected and its association with clinical characteristics of BC patients was analyzed. Besides, the gain-of function was performed to investigate the roles of NEAT1 and miR-141-3p in BC, and levels of NEAT1, miR-141-3p, KLF12 and MDR1 after EV treatment were detected by RT-qPCR and Western blot analysis. Furthermore, the in vitro findings were confirmed via lung metastases in nude mice. Results: NEAT1 expression in serum EVs was high and related to lymph node metastasis, progesterone receptor, estrogen receptor and Ki-67 in BC patients. After EV treatment, NEAT1 and KLF12 levels were increased, miR-141-3p expression was decreased, the abilities of proliferation, invasion, migration and in vivo metastasis were enhanced, and the sensitivity of cells to cisplatin, paclitaxel and 5-fluorouracil was decreased. After NEAT1 interference, NEAT1 and KLF12 levels in BC cells treated with EVs were decreased, miR-141-3p expression was increased, cell proliferation, invasion, migration and in vivo metastasis were decreased, and drug resistance sensitivity was increased. NEAT1 can bind to miR-141-3p and upregulates KLF12 expression. Conclusions: EVs inhibit the regulation of KLF12 by miR-141-3p by transporting NEAT1 to BC cells, thus promoting BC cell invasion, migration, and chemotherapy resistance.
Loss of AKAP150 perturbs distinct neuronal processes in mice. A-Kinase Anchoring Proteins (AKAPs) ensure the fidelity of second messenger signaling events by directing protein kinases and phosphatases toward their preferred substrates. AKAP150 brings protein kinase A (PKA), the calcium/calmodulin dependent phosphatase PP2B and protein kinase C (PKC) to postsynaptic membranes where they facilitate the phosphorylation dependent modulation of certain ion channels. Immunofluorescence and electrophysiological recordings were combined with behavioral analyses to assess whether removal of AKAP150 by gene targeting in mice changes the signaling environment to affect excitatory and inhibitory neuronal processes. Mislocalization of PKA in AKAP150 null hippocampal neurons alters the bidirectional modulation of postsynaptic AMPA receptors with concomitant changes in synaptic transmission and memory retention. AKAP150 null mice also exhibit deficits in motor coordination and strength that are consistent with a role for the anchoring protein in the cerebellum. Loss of AKAP150 in sympathetic cervical ganglion (SCG) neurons reduces muscarinic suppression of inhibitory M currents and provides these animals with a measure of resistance to seizures induced by the non-selective muscarinic agonist pilocarpine. These studies argue that distinct AKAP150-enzyme complexes regulate context-dependent neuronal signaling events in vivo.
Loss of ErbB2 expression in pulmonary metastatic lesions in osteosarcoma. Objectives: The c-erbB2 protooncogene is located on human chromosome 17 and encodes a 185-kilodalton transmembrane glycoprotein (ErbB2). Elevated ErbB2 expression or gene amplification has been shown to be associated with a poor prognosis in many cancers. Recently, it has been demonstrated that overexpression of the ErbB2 protein in osteosarcoma is associated with the presence of pulmonary metastasis and decreased survival. To further investigate the role of ErbB2 overexpression in pulmonary metastasis of osteosarcoma, its expression in the primary and metastatic lesions of the same osteosarcoma patients was compared. Methods: We compared the expression levels of ErbB2 receptor protein between the biopsy samples and pulmonary metastatic lesions in each of 19 patients with osteosarcoma who had not presented with metastasis at diagnosis. All archival materials from patients were retrieved and stained with monoclonal antibody CB11 to detect ErbB2 protein. Results: The rate of overexpression was significantly lower in the pulmonary metastatic tumors than in the biopsy samples (11 versus 42%; p = 0.03). Among 8 patients who had shown increased levels of ErbB2 in the biopsy samples, 7 exhibited complete absence of ErbB2 in the pulmonary metastatic lesions. Overall loss of ErbB2 expression was noted in 14 of 19 patients as the initial tumor became metastatic. Conclusions: It is suggested that overexpression of ErbB2 decreases within individual osteosarcomas as they become metastatic. Overexpression of ErbB2 may not play an important role in the development of pulmonary metastases of osteosarcoma. Further data are needed before ErbB2 can be used in making clinical decisions for osteosarcoma patients.
Loss of apical monocilia on collecting duct principal cells impairs ATP secretion across the apical cell surface and ATP-dependent and flow-induced calcium signals. Renal epithelial cells release ATP constitutively under basal conditions and release higher quantities of purine nucleotide in response to stimuli. ATP filtered at the glomerulus, secreted by epithelial cells along the nephron, and released serosally by macula densa cells for feedback signaling to afferent arterioles within the glomerulus has important physiological signaling roles within kidneys. In autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease (ARPKD) mice and humans, collecting duct epithelial cells lack an apical central cilium or express dysfunctional proteins within that monocilium. Collecting duct principal cells derived from an Oak Ridge polycystic kidney (orpkTg737) mouse model of ARPKD lack a well-formed apical central cilium, thought to be a sensory organelle. We compared these cells grown as polarized cell monolayers on permeable supports to the same cells where the apical monocilium was genetically rescued with the wild-type Tg737 gene that encodes Polaris, a protein essential to cilia formation. Constitutive ATP release under basal conditions was low and not different in mutant versus rescued monolayers. However, genetically rescued principal cell monolayers released ATP three- to fivefold more robustly in response to ionomycin. Principal cell monolayers with fully formed apical monocilia responded three- to fivefold greater to hypotonicity than mutant monolayers lacking monocilia. In support of the idea that monocilia are sensory organelles, intentionally harsh pipetting of medium directly onto the center of the monolayer induced ATP release in genetically rescued monolayers that possessed apical monocilia. Mechanical stimulation was much less effective, however, on mutant orpk collecting duct principal cell monolayers that lacked apical central monocilia. Our data also show that an increase in cytosolic free Ca2+ primes the ATP pool that is released in response to mechanical stimuli. It also appears that hypotonic cell swelling and mechanical pipetting stimuli trigger release of a common ATP pool. Cilium-competent monolayers responded to flow with an increase in cell Ca2+ derived from both extracellular and intracellular stores. This flow-induced Ca2+ signal was less robust in cilium-deficient monolayers. Flow-induced Ca2+ signals in both preparations were attenuated by extracellular gadolinium and by extracellular apyrase, an ATPase/ADPase. Taken together, these data suggest that apical monocilia are sensory organelles and that their presence in the apical membrane facilitates the formation of a mature ATP secretion apparatus responsive to chemical, osmotic, and mechanical stimuli. The cilium and autocrine ATP signaling appear to work in concert to control cell Ca2+. Loss of a cilium-dedicated autocrine purinergic signaling system may be a critical underlying etiology for ARPKD and may lead to disinhibition and/or upregulation of multiple sodium (Na+) absorptive mechanisms and a resultant severe hypertensive phenotype in ARPKD and, possibly, other diseases.
Loss of p53 induces epidermal growth factor receptor promoter activity in normal human keratinocytes. Overexpression of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) in human papillomavirus type 16-immortalized human keratinocytes (HKc) is caused by the viral oncoprotein E6, which targets p53 for degradation. We have previously observed that expression of p53 RNAi in normal HKc is associated with an increase in EGFR mRNA and protein. We now report that p53 RNAi induces EGFR promoter activity up to approximately 10-fold in normal HKc, and this effect does not require intact p53 binding sites on the EGFR promoter. Exogenous wild-type p53 inhibits the EGFR promoter at low levels, and activates it at higher concentrations. Yin Yang 1 (YY1), which negatively regulates p53, induces EGFR promoter activity, and this effect is augmented by p53 RNAi. Intact p53 binding sites on the EGFR promoter are not required for activation by YY1. In addition, Sp1 and YY1 synergistically induce the EGFR promoter in normal HKc, indicating that Sp1 may recruit YY1 as a co-activator. Wild-type p53 suppressed Sp1- and YY1-mediated induction of the EGFR promoter. We conclude that acute loss of p53 in normal HKc induces EGFR expression by a mechanism that involves YY1 and Sp1 and does not require p53 binding to the EGFR promoter.
MALT1 directs B cell receptor-induced canonical nuclear factor-κB signaling selectively to the c-Rel subunit. NF-κB (Rel) transcription factors control physiological and pathological immune cell function. The scaffold proteins Bcl-10 and MALT1 couple antigen-receptor signals to the canonical NF-κB pathway and are pivotal in lymphomagenesis. Here we found that Bcl-10 and MALT1 differentially regulated B cell receptor-induced activation of RelA and c-Rel. Bcl-10 was essential for recruitment of the kinase IKK into lipid rafts for the activation of RelA and c-Rel, for blocking apoptosis and for inducing division after B cell receptor ligation. In contrast, MALT1 participated in survival signaling but was not involved in IKK recruitment or activation and was dispensable for RelA induction and proliferation. MALT1 selectively activated c-Rel to control a distinct subprogram. Our results provide mechanistic insights into B cell receptor-induced survival and proliferation signals and demonstrate the selective control of c-Rel in the canonical NF-κB pathway.
MBD2 and multiple domains of CHD4 are required for transcriptional repression by MI-2/NuRD complexes. Mi-2/nucleosome remodeling and deacetylase (NuRD) chromatin remodeling complexes are important regulators of chromatin structure and DNA accessibility. We examined requirements for individual domains of chromodomain helicase DNA-binding protein 4 (CHD4), a core catalytic component of NuRD complexes, as well as the NuRD subunit methyl-binding domain protein 2 (MBD2) and methylated DNA, for NuRD function in the context of tissue-specific transcription. By itself, loss of NuRD activity is not sufficient for transcriptional activation. However, NuRD complexes greatly reduce activation of the B cell-specific mb-1 (Cd79a) gene by the transcription factors EBF1 and Pax5. Using our B cell model system, we determined that the two chromodomains and ATPase/helicase and C-terminal domains (CTD) of CHD4 are all necessary for repression of mb-1 promoters by NuRD. All of these domains except the CTD are required for efficient association of CHD4 with mb-1 promoter chromatin. Loss of MBD2 expression or of DNA methylation impaired association of CHD4 with mb-1 promoter chromatin and enhanced its transcription. We conclude that repressive functions of MBD2-containing NuRD complexes are dependent on cooperative interactions between the major domains of CHD4 with histones and DNA and on binding of methylated DNA by MBD2.
MCP-1 facilitates VEGF production by removing miR-374b-5p blocking of VEGF mRNA translation. Monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1) is known to be able to facilitate vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) gene expression, hence promoting vascular hyperpermeability and neovascularization. We show here that a microRNA molecule, miR-374b-5p can target the 3′-untranslated region of the VEGF mRNA, thus preventing VEGF production. Additionally, MCP-1 promotes the acetylation of transcription factor stat3 at Lys685, which facilitates the formation of an ac-stat3-DNA methyltransferase-histone methyltransferase complex (ac-stat3/DNMT1/EZH2) that binds to the promoter of the miR-374b-5p gene. This results in diminished miR-374b-5p expression and enhanced VEGF production. Moreover, treatment of appropriate animal models either with a miR-374b-5p mimicry or with inhibitors of either stat3 acetylation, DNMT1, or EZH2, leads to marked inhibition of MCP-1-promoted neovascularization and tumor growth. These findings indicate that MCP-1 facilitated inhibition of miR-374b-5p gene expression leads to the removal of a block of VEGF mRNA translation by miR-374b-5p. This mechanism could be of importance in the modulation of inflammatory conditions.
METTL15 interacts with the assembly intermediate of murine mitochondrial small ribosomal subunit to form m4C840 12S rRNA residue. Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomes contain a set of modified nucleotides, which is distinct from that of the cytosolic ribosomes. Nucleotide m4C840 of the murine mitochondrial 12S rRNA is equivalent to the dimethylated m4Cm1402 residue of Escherichia coli 16S rRNA. Here we demonstrate that mouse METTL15 protein is responsible for the formation of m4C residue of the 12S rRNA. Inactivation of Mettl15 gene in murine cell line perturbs the composition of mitochondrial protein biosynthesis machinery. Identification of METTL15 interaction partners revealed that the likely substrate for this RNA methyltransferase is an assembly intermediate of the mitochondrial small ribosomal subunit containing an assembly factor RBFA.
MIEN1 is tightly regulated by SINE Alu methylation in its promoter. Migration and invasion enhancer 1 (MIEN1) is a novel gene involved in prostate cancer progression by enhancing prostate cancer cell migration and invasion. DNA methylation, an important epigenetic regulation, is one of the most widely altered mechanisms in prostate cancer. This phenomenon frames the basis to study the DNA methylation patterns in the promoter region of MIEN1. Bisulfite pyrosequencing demonstrates the MIEN1 promoter contains a short interspersed nuclear Alu element (SINE Alu) repeat sequence. Validation of methylation inhibition on MIEN1 was performed using nucleoside analogs and non-nucleoside inhibitors and resulted in an increase in both MIEN1 RNA and protein in normal cells. MIEN1 mRNA and protein increases upon inhibition of individual DNA methyltransferases using RNA interference technologies. Furthermore, dual luciferase reporter assays, in silico analysis, and chromatin immunoprecipitation assays identified a sequence upstream of the transcription start site that has a site for binding of the USF transcription factors. These results suggest the MIEN1 promoter has a SINE Alu region that is hypermethylated in normal cells leading to repression of the gene. In cancer, the hypomethylation of a part of this repeat, in addition to the binding of USF, results in MIEN1 expression.
MLL5, a trithorax homolog, indirectly regulates H3K4 methylation, represses cyclin A2 expression, and promotes myogenic differentiation. Most cells in adult tissues are nondividing. In skelmuscle, differentiated myofibers have exited the cell cycle permanently, whereas satellite stem cells withdraw transiently, returning to active proliferation to repair damaged myofibers. We have examined the epigenetic mechanisms operating in conditional quiescence by analyzing the function of a predicted chromatin regulator mixed lineage leukemia 5 (MLL5) in a culture model of reversible arrest. MLL5 is induced in quiescent myoblasts and regulates both the cell cycle and differentiation via a hierarchy of chromatin and transcriptional regulators. Knocking down MLL5 delays entry of quiescent myoblasts into S phase, but hastens S-phase completion. Cyclin A2 (CycA) mRNA is no longer restricted to S phase, but is induced throughout G 0/G 1, with activation of the cell cycle regulated element (CCRE) in the CycA promoter. Overexpressed MLL5 physically associates with the CCRE and impairs its activity. MLL5 also regulates CycA indirectly: Cux, an activator of CycA promoter and S phase is induced in RNAi cells, and Brm/Brg1, CCRE-binding repressors that promote differentiation are repressed. In knockdown cells, H3K4 methylation at the CCRE is reduced, reflecting quantitative global changes in methylation. MLL5 appears to lack intrinsic histone methyl transferase activity, but regulates expression of histone-modifying enzymes LSD1 and SET7/9, suggesting an indirect mechanism. Finally, expression of muscle regulators Pax7, Myf5, and myogenin is impaired in MLL5 knockdown cells, which are profoundly differentiation defective. Collectively, our results suggest that MLL5 plays an integral role in novel chromatin regulatory mechanisms that suppress inappropriate expression of S-phase-promoting genes and maintain expression of determination genes in quiescent cells.
MLPA analysis for molecular diagnosis of spinal muscular atrophy and correlation of 5q13.2 genes with disease phenotype in Egyptian patients. Background: Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is an autosomal recessive neuromuscular disease representing the most prevalent monogenic cause of infant mortality. It results from the loss of SMN1 gene, but retention of its paralog SMN2 whose copy number can modulate the disease severity and guide the therapeutic regimen. Methods: For SMA molecular analysis, 236 unrelated Egyptian patients were enrolled at our institution. The Multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification analysis (MLPA) was applied to investigate the main genetic defect in the enrolled patients (SMN1 loss) and to determine a possible genotype–phenotype correlation between the copy number of other genes in the SMN locus (5q13.2) and disease severity in Egyptian patients with SMA. A small cohort of healthy subjects (n = 57) was also included to investigate the possible differences in the distributions of SMN2 and NAIP genes between patients and healthy individuals. Results: Disease diagnosis was confirmed in only 148 patients (62.7%) highlighting the clinical overlapping of the disease and emphasizing the importance of molecular diagnosis. In patients with homozygous SMN1 loss, the disease was mediated by gene deletion and conversion in 135 (91.2%) and 13 (8.8%) patients, respectively. In the study cohort, SMN2 and NAIP copy numbers were inversely correlated with disease severity. However, no significant association was detected between GTF2H2A and SERF1B copy numbers and patient phenotype. Significant differences were demonstrated in the copy numbers of SMN2 and NAIP between SMA patients and healthy subjects. Conclusion: Molecular analysis of SMA is essential for disease diagnosis. Consistent with previous studies on other populations, there is a close relationship between SMN2 and NAIP copy numbers and clinical phenotype. Additionally, potential differences in these two genes distributions are existing between patients and healthy subjects. National program for carrier screening should be established as a preventive disease strategy. On the other hand, neonatal testing would provide accurate estimation for disease incidence.
MZF1 possesses a repressively regulatory function in ERCC1 expression. ERCC1 is a critical gene within the nucleotide excision repair pathway. Overexpression of ERCC1 through promoter-mediating transcriptional regulation is associated with repair of cisplatin-induced DNA damage and clinical resistance to platinum-chemotherapy. Several transcriptional repressors and activators within the 5′-flanking region of the ERCC1 gene may be involved in the up-regulation of this gene. Minimal sequence within the promoter region required for ERCC1 transcription was analyzed by CAT assay and demonstrated that the region of -220 to -110 is essential to constitutive expression of ERCC1 gene in ovarian cancer cell line A2780/CP70. A more forward upstream region seems to be responsible for cisplatin-induced expression. Study of the functional cis-element in this region by electrophoretic mobility shift assay indicates that a MZF1-like site as well as an AP1-like site responded in a time-dependent manner to cisplatin stimulation with altered binding activities. EMSA with MZF1 ZN1-4 consensus oligonucleotides suggests that the MZF1 N-terminal domain of zinc finger cluster may bind to the MZF1-like site of the ERCC1 promoter region. MZF1 mRNA in A2780/CP70 cells decreased upon cisplatin exposure as analyzed by quantitative PCR, suggesting that MZF1 may mediate cisplatin-invoked gene expression in these cells. Overexpression of MZF1 repressed the ERCC1 promoter activity as determined in co-transfection assay, suggesting that MZF1 might be a repressor of ERCC1 transcription upon cisplatin exposure. In summary, our studies revealed a core promoter region and adjacent drug-responsible region within the ERCC1 promoter. The drug-responsible region contains cis-elements of activator, AP1 and repressor, MZF1. In response to cisplatin treatment, decreased MZF1 and increased AP1 binding activities appear to be the leading mechanism of up-regulation of ERCC1 expression. Our findings imply potential therapeutic strategies to antagonize drug resistant mechanisms in treatment of human ovarian cancer.
Macrophage migration inhibitory factor triggers chemotaxis of CD74+CXCR2+NKT cells in chemically induced IFN-γ-Mediated skin inflammation. IFN-γ mediates chemically induced skin inflammation; however, the mechanism by which IFN-γ-producing cells are recruited to the sites of inflammation remains undefined. Secretion of macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF), a proinflammatory cytokine, from damaged cells may promote immune cell recruitment. We hypothesized that MIF triggers an initial step in the chemotaxis of IFN-γ-producing cells in chemically induced skin inflammation. Using acute and chronic models of 12-Otetradecanoylphorbol- 13-acetate (TPA)-induced skin inflammation in mouse ears, MIF expression was examined, and its role in this process was investigated pharmacologically. The cell populations targeted by MIF, their receptor expression patterns, and the effects of MIF on cell migration were examined. TPA directly caused cytotoxicity accompanied by MIF release in mouse ear epidermal keratinocytes, as well as in human keratinocytic HaCaT cells. Treatment with theMIF antagonist (S,R)-3-(4-hydroxyphenyl)- 4,5-dihydro-5-isoxazole acetic acid methyl ester considerably attenuated TPA-induced ear swelling, leukocyte infiltration, epidermal cell proliferation, and dermal angiogenesis. Inhibition of MIF greatly diminished the dermal infiltration of IFN-γ+ NKT cells, whereas the addition of exogenous TPA and MIF to NKT cells promoted their IFN-γ production and migration, respectively. MIF specifically triggered the chemotaxis of NKT cells via CD74 and CXCR2, and the resulting depletion of NKT cells abolished TPAinduced skin inflammation. In TPA-induced skin inflammation, MIF is released from damaged keratinocytes and then triggers the chemotaxis of CD74+CXCR2+ NKT cells for IFN-γ production.
Maps of open chromatin highlight cell type-restricted patterns of regulatory sequence variation at hematological trait loci. Nearly three-quarters of the 143 genetic signals associated with platelet and erythrocyte phenotypes identified by metaanalyses of genome-wide association (GWA) studies are located at non-protein-coding regions. Here, we assessed the role of candidate regulatory variants associated with cell type-restricted, closely related hematological quantitative traits in biologically relevant hematopoietic cell types. We used formaldehyde-assisted isolation of regulatory elements followed by next-generation sequencing (FAIRE-seq) to map regions of open chromatin in three primary human blood cells of the myeloid lineage. In the precursors of platelets and erythrocytes, as well as in monocytes, we found that open chromatin signatures reflect the corresponding hematopoietic lineages of the studied cell types and associate with the cell type-specific gene expression patterns. Dependent on their signal strength, open chromatin regions showed correlation with promoter and enhancer histone marks, distance to the transcription start site, and ontology classes of nearby genes. Cell type-restricted regions of open chromatin were enriched in sequence variants associated with hematological indices. The majority (63.6%) of such candidate functional variants at platelet quantitative trait loci (QTLs) coincided with binding sites of five transcription factors key in regulating megakaryopoiesis. We experimentally tested 13 candidate regulatory variants at 10 platelet QTLs and found that 10 (76.9%) affected protein binding, suggesting that this is a frequent mechanism by which regulatory variants influence quantitative trait levels. Our findings demonstrate that combining large-scale GWA data with open chromatin profiles of relevant cell types can be a powerful means of dissecting the genetic architecture of closely related quantitative traits.
Master lineage transcription factors anchor trans mega transcriptional complexes at highly accessible enhancer sites to promote long-range chromatin clustering and transcription of distal target genes. The term 'super enhancers' (SE) has been widely used to describe stretches of closely localized enhancers that are occupied collectively by large numbers of transcription factors (TFs) and co-factors, and control the transcription of highly-expressed genes. Through integrated analysis of >600 DNase-seq, ChIP-seq, GRO-seq, STARR-seq, RNA-seq, Hi-C and ChIA-PET data in five human cancer cell lines, we identified a new class of autonomous SEs (aSEs) that are excluded from classic SE calls by the widely used Rank Ordering of Super-Enhancers (ROSE) method. TF footprint analysis revealed that compared to classic SEs and regular enhancers, aSEs are tightly bound by a dense array of master lineage TFs, which serve as anchors to recruit additional TFs and co-factors in trans. In addition, aSEs are preferentially enriched for Cohesins, which likely involve in stabilizing long-distance interactions between aSEs and their distal target genes. Finally, we showed that aSEs can be reliably predicted using a single DNase-seq data or combined with Mediator and/or P300 ChIP-seq. Overall, our study demonstrates that aSEs represent a unique class of functionally important enhancer elements that distally regulate the transcription of highly expressed genes.
Mature human neutrophils constitutively express the transcription factor EGR-1. The immediate early response gene, Early Growth Response 1 (EGR-1) has emerged as a central regulator of early inflammatory and immune processes by rapidly regulating the transcription of a wide array of downstream effector genes. Neutrophils, which are among the first circulating leukocytes to respond to inflammatory signals, exhibit a broad set of transcriptional changes immediately upon exposure to inflammatory and pathogenic stimuli. Such transcriptional changes are likely to be controlled by early gene transcription factors such as EGR-1. We therefore examined the regulation and role of EGR-1 in mature human neutrophils exposed to the inflammatory stimuli fMLP and IL-8.We report that human neutrophils rapidly and transiently up-regulate EGR-1 mRNA upon stimulation with fMLP or IL-8. However in contrast to that seen in other cells, EGR-1 mRNA expression profiles were not predictive of protein expression. Instead, we show that human neutrophils constitutively express EGR-1 protein. The cellular content of EGR-1 did not change over time or upon neutrophil activation. Confocal microscopy revealed that EGR-1 was present in both the cytoplasm and nuclei of un-stimulated neutrophils and that activation did not change this subcellular localization or promote nuclear translocation. Using chromatin immunoprecipitation, we demonstrate that EGR-1 is associated with the promoter regions of the immune regulatory genes IL-1β, TGFβ-1 and MIF in both resting and activated neutrophils with increased promoter association observed upon cell activation. This novel pattern of EGR-1 protein expression may underlie the ability of the neutrophil to respond rapidly to inflammatory stimuli.
Mechanical loading in osteocytes induces formation of a Src/Pyk2/MBD2 complex that suppresses anabolic gene expression. Mechanical stimulation of the skeleton promotes bone gain and suppresses bone loss, ultimately resulting in improved bone strength and fracture resistance. The molecular mechanisms directing anabolic and/or anti-catabolic actions on the skeleton during loading are not fully understood. Identifying molecular mechanisms of mechanotransduction (MTD) signaling cascades could identify new therapeutic targets. Most research into MTD mechanisms is typically focused on understanding the signaling pathways that stimulate new bone formation in response to load. However, we investigated the structural, signaling and transcriptional molecules that suppress the stimulatory effects of loading. The high bone mass phenotype of mice with global deletion of either Pyk2 or Src suggests a role for these tyrosine kinases in repression of bone formation. We used fluid shear stress as a MTD stimulus to identify a novel Pyk2/Src-mediated MTD pathway that represses mechanically-induced bone formation. Our results suggest Pyk2 and Src function as molecular switches that inhibit MTD in our mechanically stimulated osteocyte culture experiments. Once activated by oscillatory fluid shear stress (OFSS), Pyk2 and Src translocate to and accumulate in the nucleus, where they associate with a protein involved in DNA methylation and the interpretation of DNA methylation patterns -methyl-CpG-binding domain protein 2 (MBD2). OFSS-induced Cox-2 and osteopontin expression was enhanced in Pyk2 KO osteoblasts, while inhibition of Src enhanced osteocalcin expression in response to OFSS. We found that Src kinase activity increased in the nucleus of osteocytes in response to OFSS and an interaction activated between Src (Y418) and Pyk2 (Y402) increased in response to OFSS. Thus, as a mechanism to prevent an over-reaction to physical stimulation, mechanical loading may induce the formation of a Src/Pyk2/MBD2 complex in the nucleus that functions to suppress anabolic gene expression.
Mechanism of erythropoietin regulation by angiotensin II. Erythropoietin (EPO) is the primary regulator of red blood cell development. Although hypoxic regulation of EPO has been extensively studied, the mechanism(s) for basal regulation of EPO are not well understood. In vivo studies in healthy human volunteers and animal models indicated that angiotensin II (Ang II) and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors regulated blood EPO levels. In the current study, we found that Ang II induced EPO expression in situ in murine kidney slices and in 786-O kidney cells in culture as determined by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. We further investigated the signaling mechanism of Ang II regulation of EPO in 786-O cells. Pharmacological inhibitors of Ang II type 1 receptor (AT1R) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) suppressed Ang II transcriptional activation of EPO. Inhibitors of AT2R or Src homology 2 domain-containing tyrosine phosphatase had no effect. Coimmunoprecipiation experiments demonstrated that p21Ras was constitutively bound to the AT 1R; this association was increased by Ang II but was reduced by the AT1R inhibitor telmisartan. Transmembrane domain (TM) 2 of AT 1R is important for G protein-dependent ERK1/2 activation, and mutant D74E in TM2 blocked Ang II activation of ERK1/2. Ang II signaling induced the nuclear translocation of the Egr-1 transcription factor, and overexpression of dominant-negative Egr-1 blocked EPO promoter activation by Ang II. These data identify a novel pathway for basal regulation of EPO via AT1R- mediated Egr-1 activation by p21Ras-mitogen-activated protein kinase/ERK kinase-ERK1/2. Our current data suggest that Ang II, in addition to regulating blood volume and pressure, may be a master regulator of erythropoiesis.
Mechanisms of heterochromatin subnuclear localization. Transcriptionally repressed heterochromatin becomes the dominant form of chromatin in most terminally differentiated cells. Moreover, in most cells, at least one class of heterochromatin is positioned adjacent to the nuclear lamina. Recent approaches have addressed the mechanism of heterochromatin localization, in order to determine whether spatial segregation contributes to gene repression. Findings in worms and human cells confirm a role for histone H3K9 methylation in heterochromatin positioning, identifying a modification that is also necessary for gene repression of worm transgenic arrays. These pathways appear to be conserved, although mutations in mammalian cells have weaker effects, possibly due to redundancy in positioning mechanisms. We propose a general model in which perinuclear anchoring is linked to an epigenetic propagation of the heterochromatic state, through histone modification.
Mechanisms underlying the conversion of DNA double-strand breaks into chromatid breaks. Chromatid breaks are associated with cancer-predisposition but may also provide a mechanism of radiation carcinogenesis via the formation of genomic rearrangements. A model of chromatid breakage has been proposed and supporting evidence presented which derives from work with a genetically-engineered hamster cell line containing a unique dsb site. Chromatid breaks are induced in irradiated mammalian cells as a linear function of dose indicating that they arise from single events, thought to be DNA double-strand breaks (dsb). However, the molecular mechanism of the transition between a dsb (with the loss of only a few base-pairs at most) and a chromatid break (with the apparent loss of 5-40 megabase-pairs) is not yet fully clear. A significant number of chromatid breaks occurring spontaneously or following irradiation clearly involve a genomic rearrangement, manifest as colour-switches between sister chromatids at break-points in harlequin (FPG) stained chromosomes. Furthermore, the kinetics of chromatid break disappearance with time following irradiation does not correspond with the rejoining of dsb; e.g. some mutant cell lines deficient in dsb rejoining show elevated break frequencies but normal chromatid break disappearance with time. The signal model of chromatid breaks is able to accommodate these findings, and in particular allows the dissociation of dsb and chromatid break kinetics with time. Briefly, the model proposes signalling of a single dsb that triggers the cell to make a genomic rearrangement at the crossover points of a looped chromatin domain, possibly a transcription ‘factory’. If incomplete, the rearrangement leads to a chromatid break. Thus, rearrangement may occur between sister chromatids, when a colour-switch is seen at the break point, or more frequently (most probably 80% or more) within a single chromatid, leading to an inversion adjacent to the break site. Completion of the latter type of rearrangement would lead to a transmissible inversion, a possible carcinogenic event. We have evidence that the XRCC2 gene is involved in the process since mutation of this gene significantly alters the colour-switch ratio (ratio of colour-switch breaks to the total chromatid breaks). The requirement for only a single dsb has been confirmed by results of experiments with a genetically engineered cell line containing a unique dsb (I-Sce1) cut-site.
Med12 regulates ovarian steroidogenesis, uterine development and maternal effects in the mammalian egg. The transcriptional factor MED12 is part of the essential mediator transcriptional complex that acts as a transcriptional coactivator in all eukaryotes. Missense gain-of-function mutations in human MED12 are associated with uterine leiomyomas, yet the role of MED12 deficiency in tumorigenesis and reproductive biology has not been fully explored. We generated a Med12 reproductive conditional knockout mouse model to evaluate its role in uterine mesenchyme, granulosa cells, and oocytes. Mice heterozygous for Med12 deficiency in granulosa cells and uterus (Med12fl/+ Amhr2-Cre) were subfertile, while mice homozygous for Med12 deficiency in granulosa cells and uterus (Med12fl/fl Amhr2-Cre) were infertile.Morphological and histological analysis of the Med12fl/fl Amhr2-Cre reproductive tract revealed atrophic uteri and hyperchromatic granulosa cells with disrupted expression of Lhcgr, Esr1, and Esr2. Med12fl/fl Amhr2-Cre mice estrous cycle was disrupted, and serum analysis showed blunted rise in estradiol in response to pregnant mare serum gonadotropin. Uterine atrophy was partially rescued by exogenous steroid supplementation with dysregulation of Notch1 and Smo expression in steroid supplemented Med12fl/fl Amhr2-Cre uteri, indicating intrinsic uterine defects. Oocyte-specific ablation of Med12 caused infertility without disrupting normal folliculogenesis and ovulation, consistent with maternal effects of Med12 in early embryo development. These results show the critical importance of Med12 in reproductive tract development and that Med12 loss of function does not cause tumorigenesis in reproductive tissues.
Metabolomic markers reveal novel pathways of ageing and early development in human populations. Background Human ageing is a complex, multifactorial process and early developmental factors affect health outcomes in old age. Methods Metabolomic profiling on fasting blood was carried out in 6055 individuals from the UK. Stepwise regression was performed to identify a panel of independent metabolites which could be used as a surrogate for age. We also investigated the association with birthweight overall and within identical discordant twins and with genome-wide methylation levels. Results We identified a panel of 22 metabolites which combined are strongly correlated with age (R2=59%) and with age-related clinical traits independently of age. One particular metabolite, C-glycosyl tryptophan (C-glyTrp), correlated strongly with age (beta=0.03, SE=0.001, P=7.0×10-157) and lung function (FEV1 beta=-0.04, SE=0.008, P=1.8×10-8 adjusted for age and confounders) and was replicated in an independent population (n=887). C-glyTrp was also associated with bone mineral density (beta=-0.01, SE=0.002, P=1.9×10-6) and birthweight (beta=-0.06, SE=0.01, P=2.5×10-9). The difference in C-glyTrp levels explained 9.4% of the variance in the difference in birthweight between monozygotic twins. An epigenome-wide association study in 172 individuals identified three CpG-sites, associated with levels of C-glyTrp (P < 2×10-6). We replicated one CpG site in the promoter of the WDR85 gene in an independent sample of 350 individuals (beta=-0.20, SE=0.04, P=2.9×10-8). WDR85 is a regulator of translation elongation factor 2, essential for protein synthesis in eukaryotes. Conclusions Our data illustrate how metabolomic profiling linked with epigenetic studies can identify some key molecular mechanisms potentially determined in early development that produce long-term physiological changes influencing human health and ageing.
Methionine Metabolism Shapes T Helper Cell Responses through Regulation of Epigenetic Reprogramming. Epigenetic modifications on DNA and histones regulate gene expression by modulating chromatin accessibility to transcription machinery. Here we identify methionine as a key nutrient affecting epigenetic reprogramming in CD4+ T helper (Th) cells. Using metabolomics, we showed that methionine is rapidly taken up by activated T cells and serves as the major substrate for biosynthesis of the universal methyl donor S-adenosyl-L-methionine (SAM). Methionine was required to maintain intracellular SAM pools in T cells. Methionine restriction reduced histone H3K4 methylation (H3K4me3) at the promoter regions of key genes involved in Th17 cell proliferation and cytokine production. Applied to the mouse model of multiple sclerosis (experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis), dietary methionine restriction reduced the expansion of pathogenic Th17 cells in vivo, leading to reduced T cell-mediated neuroinflammation and disease onset. Our data identify methionine as a key nutritional factor shaping Th cell proliferation and function in part through regulation of histone methylation.
Methyl-CpG-binding domain 3 (Mbd3) is an important regulator for apoptosis in mouse embryonic stem cells. Methyl-CpG-binding domain 3 (Mbd3) is a core repressor complex component. Although Mbd3 is required for the pluripotency of embryonic stem cells (ES), the role of Mbd3 in mouse ES (mES) cell apoptosis remains undefined. In this study naive-state mES were derived and maintained in the presence of a selective protein kinase C pathway inhibitor (PKCi; Go6983) to study the function of Mbd3 during mES apoptosis. Mbd3 overexpression in mES decreased the total cell number and viability, and it also dramatically increased the rate of apoptosis. Further investigation of Mbd3 overexpression revealed a 3-fold increase in the proapoptotic/prosurvival protein ratio (Bax/Bcl-2) and elevated RNA expression levels of apoptosis-related genes, including Bim, Trail, Fasl, and caspase 3, with reduced Bcl-2 RNA expression levels. Removal of PKCi from the mES cell culture resulted in upregulated Mbd3 expression and apoptosis, similar to the effects of Mbd3 overexpression. Furthermore, specific knockdown of endogenous Mbd3 partially rescued the mES apoptosis induced by the removal of PKCi, thus increasing the total cell number and viability while decreasing the rate of apoptosis. Additionally, Bax, Bim, Trail, and caspase 3 RNA expression levels were partially reduced, and that of Bcl-2 was partially increased. Our findings support Mbd3 as a pivotal regulator of apoptosis in mES.
Methylation Status of the RIZ1 Gene Promoter in Human Glioma Tissues and Cell Lines. Retinoblastoma protein-interacting zinc-finger gene 1 (RIZ1), a strong tumor suppressor, is silenced in many human cancers. Our previous studies showed that RIZ1 expression was negatively correlated with the grade of glioma and was a key predictor of patient survival. Therefore, RIZ1 could be a potential tumor suppressor during glioma pathogenesis, although the mechanism underlying RIZ1 gene inactivation in gliomas is unknown. We investigated the methylation status of the RIZ1 promoter in human glioma tissues and four glioblastoma (GBM) cell lines, and verified the effect of the methyltransferase inhibitor 5-aza-2-deoxycytidine (5-aza-CdR) on RIZ1 transcription and cell proliferation. Methylation-specific PCR (MSP) was performed to determine RIZ1 promoter methylation in human glioma specimens. The correlation between RIZ1 hypermethylation in tumors and clinicopathological features also was analyzed. 5-Aza-CdR treatment was used to reactivate gene expression silenced by hypermethylation in the U87 glioblastoma cell line, and real-time PCR was then used to measure RIZ1 expression. The ability of 5-aza-CdR to inhibit the proliferation of glioma cell lines whose RIZ1 promoters were hypermethylated was measured by bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) incorporation. Among 51 human glioma specimens, RIZ1 promoter methylation was detected in 23 cases. Clinicopathological evaluation suggested that RIZ1 hypermethylation was negatively associated with tumor grade and patient age (P < 0.05). Hypermethylation of the RIZ1 promoter was detected in the U87 and U251 cell lines. RIZ1 mRNA expression in U87 cells was upregulated after treatment with 5-aza-Cdr, which correlated with inhibition of cell proliferation in a time- and concentration-dependent manner. Promoter hypermethylation may play an important role in the epigenetic silencing of RIZ1 expression in human glioma tissues and GBM cell lines.
Methylation of tumor suppressor genes is related with copy number aberrations in breast cancer. This study investigates the relationship of promoter methylation in tumor suppressor genes with copy-number aberrations (CNA) and with tumor markers in breast cancer (BCs). The study includes 98 formalin fixed paraffin-embedded BCs in which promoter methylation of 24 tumour suppressor genes were assessed by Methylation-Specific Multiplex Ligation-dependent Probe Amplification (MS-MLPA), CNA of 20 BC related genes by MLPA and ER, PR, HER2, CK5/6, CK18, EGFR, Cadherin-E, P53, Ki-67 and PARP expression by immunohistochemistry (IHC). Cluster analysis classed BCs in two groups according to promoter methylation percentage: the highly-methylated group (16 BCs), containing mostly hyper-methylated genes, and the sparsely-methylated group (82 BCs) with hypo-methylated genes. ATM, CDKN2A, VHL, CHFR and CDKN2B showed the greatest differences in the mean methylation percentage between these groups. We found no relationship of the IHC parameters or pathological features with methylation status, except for Catherin-E (p = 0.008). However the highly methylated BCs showed higher CNA proportion than the sparsely methylated BCs (p < 0.001, OR = 1.62; IC 95% [1.26, 2.07]). CDC6, MAPT, MED1, PRMD14 and AURKA showed the major differences in the CNA percentage between the two groups, exceeding the 22%. Methylation in RASSF1, CASP8, DAPK1 and GSTP1 conferred the highest probability of harboring CNA. Our results show a new link between promoter methylation and CNA giving support to the importance of methylation events to establish new BCs subtypes. Our findings may be also of relevance in personalized therapy assessment, which could benefit the hyper methylated BC patients group.
MiR-188 inhibits proliferation and promotes apoptosis of lung adenocarcinoma cells by targeting SIX1 to negatively regulate ERK signaling pathway. OBJECTIVE: To explore the effects of micro ribonucleic acid (miR)-188 on proliferation and apoptosis of lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) cells, and its potential mechanism. MATERIALS AND METHODS: The expression level of miR-188 in LUAD cell lines was detected via quantitative Real Time-Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR). The effects of miR-188 overexpression on proliferation and apoptosis of A549 cells were detected using methyl thiazolyl tetrazolium (MTT) assay, colony formation assay, and flow cytometry. The potential targets for miR-188 were predicted using the TargetScan Human database, and the interaction between miR-188 and target gene was determined through Dual-Luciferase reporter assay. Moreover, the associations of miR-188 and sine oculis homeobox homolog 1 (SIX1) with the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) pathway were detected via Western blotting. RESULTS: The expression of miR-188 significantly declined in LUAD cell lines (p<0.05). The overexpression of miR-188 significantly reduced the proliferation rate of A549 cells and increased the percentage of apoptotic A549 cells (p<0.05). Similarly, it was found in colony formation assay that the overexpression of miR-188 inhibited the colony formation ability of A549 cells most significantly (p<0.05). SIX1 was a direct target for miR-188, and its mRNA and protein expressions were downregulated by the overexpression of miR-188. The remarkable downregulation of phosphorylated ERK was observed in A549 cells overexpressing miR-188, while the decline in phosphorylated ERK was reversed in A549 cells overexpressing miR-188 and SIX1. CONCLUSIONS: The expression of miR-188 is downregulated in LUAD cell lines. The overexpression of miR-188 inhibits proliferation and promotes apoptosis of LUAD cells, whose functional mechanism may be related to its regulation on the ERK signaling pathway by targeting SIX1.
MiR-218-5p restores sensitivity to gemcitabine through PRKCE/MDR1 axis in gallbladder cancer. Gallbladder cancer (GBC) is one of the most common malignancy of the biliary tract characterized by its high chemoresistant tendency. Although great progresses have been made in recent decades for treating many cancers with anticancer drugs, effective therapeutics methods for anti-GBC are still lacking. Therefore, investigations into identifying the mechanisms underlying the drug resistance of GBC are greatly needed. In this study, we show that miR-218-5p plays a critical role in gemcitabine resistance of GBC. miR-218-5p levels were significantly lower in GBC than adjacent non-cancer tissues, and which were also associated with patient prognosis. While miR-218-5p overexpression abrogated gemcitabine resistance of GBC cells, silencing of which exhibited the opposite effects. Via six microRNA targets prediction algorithms, we found that PRKCE is a potential target of miR-218-5p. Moreover, miR-218-5p overexpression repressed the luciferase activity of reporter constructs containing 3′-UTR of PRKCE and also reduced PRKCE expression. Further studies revealed that miR-218-5p promotes sensitivity of gemcitabine by abolishing PRKCE-induced upregulation of MDR1/P-gp. Taken together, our results imply that an intimate correlation between miR-218-5p and PRKCE/MDR1 axis abnormal expression is a key determinant of gemcitabine tolerance, and suggest a novel miR-218-5p-based clinical intervention target for GBC patients.
MiR-9 downregulates CDX2 expression in gastric cancer cells. Ectopic expression of CDX2, a caudal-related homeobox protein, is known to be associated with the development of intestinal metaplasia in the stomach and gastric carcinogenesis. Previously, we reported that DNA methylation was partly responsible for CDX2 silencing in gastric cancer (GC). However, the mechanism underlying the aberrant expression of CDX2 during malignant transformation remained unclear. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNAs that function as post-transcriptional regulators. To elucidate the role of miRNAs in CDX2 downregulation in GC cells, putative miRNAs, such as miR-9, were computationally predicted. After exogenous pre-miR-9 precursor transfection, the luciferase activity of a reporter vector containing a part of the 3′-UTR of CDX2 was downregulated in HEK-293T cells. The inverse correlation between the miR-9 and CDX2 protein levels was demonstrated in GC cell lines. By means of miR-9 overexpression and knockdown techniques, the expression levels of the CDX2 protein and downstream target genes (p21, MUC2 and TFF3) were responsively altered in MKN45 and NUGC-3 cells. Transfection of an anti-miR-9 molecule significantly inhibited cell growth by promoting G 1 cell cycle arrest in MKN45 cells similarly to the effect of CDX2 overexpression. Moreover, examination of the miR-9 levels in primary GC tissues revealed that the amounts of miR-9 in the CDX2-negative group were significantly higher than those in the CDX2-positive group (p = 0.004). Therefore, miR-9 might repress CDX2 expression via the binding site in the 3′-UTR, resulting in the promotion of cell proliferation in GCs.
MiRNA-194 activates the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway in gastric cancer by targeting the negative Wnt regulator, SUFU. Emerging evidence has shown that miRNA-194 is aberrantly upregulated in gastric cancer (GC); however, the biological mechanisms underlying its involvement are largely unknown. Wnt/β-catenin signaling has been implicated in gastric tumorigenesis; we therefore hypothesized that miRNA-194 promotes gastric carcinogenesis by activating Wnt/β-catenin signaling. MiRNA-194 was found to be overexpressed in GC cell lines and 43 paired GC tissues. Overexpression of miRNA-194 promoted cell proliferation and migration, while inhibition of miRNA-194 blocked these processes. Inhibition of miRNA-194 decreased tumor volumes in nude mice. Furthermore, miRNA-194 inhibitors promoted cytoplasmic localization of β-catenin, leading to repression of Wnt signaling. We also discovered that SUFU, a known negative regulator of Hedgehog and Wnt signaling, was a target of miRNA-194. Anti-SUFU siRNAs rescued the inhibitory effects of miRNA-194 antagonists on cell proliferation and migration and on colony formation. We also found that SUFU expression was downregulated in GC tissues and cell lines and negatively correlated with miRNA-194 expression in primary GC tissues. Moreover, SUFU expression was negatively correlated with tumor stage, supporting its potential as a diagnostic or prognostic marker in GC. Taken together, these findings suggest that miRNA-194 is oncogenic and promotes GC cell proliferation and migration by activating Wnt signaling, at least in part, via suppression of SUFU.
MicroRNA -125a-5p regulates cancer cell proliferation and migration through NAIFI in prostate carcinoma. Background: We investigated the functional roles of microRNA-125a-5p in regulating human prostate carcinoma. Methods: Quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) was conducted to evaluate the gene expression levels of miR-125a-5p in eight prostate cancer cell lines and nine biopsy specimens from patients with prostate cancer. miR-125a-5p was genetically knocked down in prostate cancer cell lines, DU145 and VCaP cells by lentiviral transduction. The effects of miR-125a-5p downregulation on prostate cancer cell proliferation and migration were evaluated by MTT assay and transwell assay, respectively. Direct regulation of miR-125a-5p on its downstream targets, NAIF1, and apoptotic gene caspase-3 were evaluated through dual-luciferase reporter assay, qRT-PCR, and Western blot, respectively. NAIF1 was then ectopically overexpressed in DU145 and VCaP cells to modulate prostate cancer cell proliferation and migration. Finally, the effects of miR-125a-5p downregulation or NAIF1 overexpression on the growth of in vivo prostate cancer xenograft were evaluated. Results: miR-125a-5p was upregulated in prostate cancer cell lines and human prostate carcinomas. Lentivirus induced miR-125a-5p downregulation in DU145 and VCaP cells inhibited prostate cancer cell proliferation or migration. NAIF1 was the direct target of miR-125a-5p, as both gene and protein expression levels of NAIF1, as well as caspase-3 were upregulated by miR-125a-5p. Forced overexpression of NAIF1 had similar antitumor effects as miR-125a-5p downregulation on prostate cancer cell proliferation and migration. In vivo prostate xenograft assay confirmed the tumor-suppressive effect of miR-125a-5p downregulation or NAIF1 overexpression. Conclusion: miR-125a-5p regulates prostate cancer cell proliferation and migration through NAIF1.
MicroRNA function in the profibrogenic interplay upon chronic liver disease. In chronic liver disease leading to fibrosis, hepatic stellate cells (HSC) differentiate into myofibroblasts. Myofibroblastic HSC have taken center stage during liver fibrogenesis, due to their remarkable synthesis of extracellular matrix proteins, their secretion of profibrogenic mediators and their contribution to hypertension, due to elevated contractility. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small, noncoding RNA molecules of 19-24 nucleotides in length. By either RNA interference or inhibition of translational initiation and elongation, each miRNA is able to inhibit the gene expression of a wide panel of targeted transcripts. Recently, it was shown that altered miRNA patterns after chronic liver disease highly affect the progression of fibrosis by their potential to target the expression of extracellular matrix proteins and the synthesis of mediators of profibrogenic pathways. Here, we underline the role of miRNAs in the interplay of the profibrogenic cell communication pathways upon myofibroblastic differentiation of hepatic stellate cells in the chronically injured liver.
MicroRNA-138 and SIRT1 form a mutual negative feedback loop to regulate mammalian axon regeneration. Regulated gene expression determines the intrinsic ability of neurons to extend axons, and loss of such ability is the major reason for the failed axon regeneration in the mature mammalian CNS. MicroRNAs and histone modifications are key epigenetic regulators of gene expression, but their roles in mammalian axon regeneration are not well explored. Here we report microRNA-138 (miR-138) as a novel suppressor of axon regeneration and show that SIRT1, the NAD-dependent histone deacetylase, is the functional target of miR-138. Importantly, we provide the first evidence that miR-138 and SIRT1 regulate mammalian axon regeneration in vivo. Moreover, we found that SIRT1 also acts as a transcriptional repressor to suppress the expression of miR-138 in adult sensory neurons in response to peripheral nerve injury. Therefore, miR-138 and SIRT1 form a mutual negative feedback regulatory loop, which provides a novel mechanism for controlling intrinsic axon regeneration ability.
MicroRNA-181 Regulates CARM1 and Histone Aginine Methylation to Promote Differentiation of Human Embryonic Stem Cells. As a novel epigenetic mechanism, histone H3 methylation at R17 and R26, which is mainly catalyzed by coactivator-associated protein arginine methyltransferase 1 (CARM1), has been reported to modulate the transcription of key pluripotency factors and to regulate pluripotency in mouse embryos and mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs) in previous studies. However, the role of CARM1 in human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) and the regulatory mechanism that controls CARM1 expression during ESCs differentiation are presently unknown. Here, we demonstrate that CARM1 plays an active role in the resistance to differentiation in hESCs by regulating pluripotency genes in response to BMP4. In a functional screen, we identified the miR-181 family as a regulator of CARM1 that is induced during ESC differentiation and show that endogenous miR-181c represses the expression of CARM1. Depletion of CARM1 or enforced expression of miR-181c inhibits the expression of pluripotency genes and induces differentiation independent of BMP4, whereas overexpression of CARM1 or miR-181c inhibitor elevates Nanog and impedes differentiation. Furthermore, expression of CARM1 rescue constructs inhibits the effect of miR-181c overexpression in promoting differentiation. Taken together, our findings demonstrate the importance of a miR-181c-CARM1 pathway in regulating the differentiation of hESCs.
MicroRNA-24 attenuates vascular remodeling in diabetic rats through PI3K/Akt signaling pathway. Background and aims: The vascular remodeling plays a crucial role in pathogenesis of diabetic cardiovascular complications. In this study, we intended to explore the effects and potential mechanisms of microRNA-24 (miR-24) on vascular remodeling under diabetic conditions. Methods and Results: MiR-24 recombinant adenovirus (Ad-miR-24-GFP) was used to induce miR-24 overexpression either in carotid arteries or high glucose (HG)-induced vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs). Cell proliferation was analyzed using CCK-8 method. Cell migration was examined using wound-healing and transwell assay. mRNA and protein expressions of critical factors were, respectively, measured by real-time PCR and western blot as follows: qRT-PCR for the levels of miR-24, PIK3R1; western blot for the protein levels of PI3K (p85α), Akt, p-Akt, mTOR, p-mTOR, 4E-BP1, p-4E-BP1, p70s6k, p-p70s6k, MMP 2, MMP 9, collagen Ⅰ, as well as collagen Ⅲ. Carotid arteries in diabetic rats suffered balloon injury were harvested and examined by HE, immunohistochemical and Masson trichrome staining. The expression of miR-24 was decreased in HG-stimulated VSMCs and balloon-injured carotid arteries of diabetic rats, accompanied by increased mRNA expression of PIK3R1. The up-regulation of miR-24 suppressed VSMCs proliferation, migration, collagen deposition not only induced by HG in vitro, but also in balloon-injured diabetic rats, which were related to inactivation of PI3K/Akt signaling pathway. Conclusion: The up-regulation of miR-24 significantly attenuated vascular remodeling both in balloon-injured diabetic rats and HG-stimulated VSMCs via suppression of proliferation, migration and collagen deposition by acting on PIK3R1 gene that modulated the PI3K/Akt/mTOR axes.
MicroRNA-26a targets ten eleven translocation enzymes and is regulated during pancreatic cell differentiation. Ten eleven translocation (TET) enzymes (TET1/TET2/TET3) and thymine DNA glycosylase (TDG) play crucial roles in early embryonic and germ cell development by mediating DNA demethylation. However, the molecular mechanisms that regulate TETs/TDG expression and their role in cellular differentiation, including that of the pancreas, are not known. Here, we report that (i) TET1/2/3 and TDG can be direct targets of the microRNA miR-26a, (ii) murine TETs, especially TET2 and TDG, are down-regulated in islets during postnatal differentiation, whereas miR-26a is up-regulated, (iii) changes in 5-hydroxymethylcytosine accompany changes in TET mRNA levels, (iv) these changes in mRNA and 5-hydroxymethylcytosine are also seen in an in vitro differentiation system initiated with FACS-sorted adult ductal progenitor-like cells, and (v) overexpression of miR-26a in mice increases postnatal islet cell number in vivo and endocrine/acinar colonies in vitro. These results establish a previously unknown link between miRNAs and TET expression levels, and suggest a potential role for miR-26a and TET family proteins in pancreatic cell differentiation.
MicroRNA-411 Downregulation Enhances Tumor Growth by Upregulating MLLT11 Expression in Human Bladder Cancer. Although several previous studies have reported the implication of various microRNAs (miRNAs) in regulation of human bladder cancer (BC) development, alterations and function of many miRNAs in bladder cancer growth are not explored yet at present. Here, we screened 1,900 known miRNAs and first discovered that miR-411 was one of the major miRNAs, which was down-regulated in n-butyl-N-(4-hydroxybutyl)-nitrosamine (BBN)-induced BCs. This miR-411 down-regulation was also observed in human BC tissues and cell lines. The results from evaluating the relationship between miR-411 and patient survival in BC using the TCGA (The Cancer Genome Atlas) database indicated that miR-411 was positively correlated with DFS (disease-free survival). Our studies also showed that miR-411 inhibited tumor growth of human BC cells in a xenograft animal model. Mechanistic studies revealed that overexpression of miR-411 repressed the expression of ALL1-fused gene from the chromosome 1q (AF1q) (MLLT11) by binding to the 3′ untranslated region (UTR) of mllt11 mRNA and in turn induced p21 expression and caused cell cycle arrest at the G2/M phase, further inhibiting BC tumor growth. Collectively, our results improve our understanding of the role of miR-411 in BC tumor growth and suggest miR-411 and MLLT11 as potential new targets for the treatment of BC patients.
Minichromosome Maintenance (MCM) Family as potential diagnostic and prognostic tumor markers for human gliomas. Background: Gliomas are the most common type of all central nervous system tumors. Almost all patients diagnosed with these tumors have a poor prognostic outcome. We aimed to identify novel glioma prognosis-associated candidate genes.Methods: We applied WebArrayDB software to span platform integrate and analyze the microarray datasets. We focused on a subset of the significantly up-regulated genes, the minichromosome maintenance (MCM) family. We used frozen glioma samples to predict the relationship between the expression of MCMs and patients outcome by qPCR and western blot.Results: We found that MCMs expression was significantly up-regulated in glioma samples. MCM2-7 and MCM10 expressions were associated with WHO tumor grade. High MCM2 mRNA expression appeared to be strongly associated with poor overall survival in patients with high grade glioma. Furthermore, we report that MCM7 is strongly correlated with patient outcome in patients with WHO grade II-IV tumor. MCM3 expression was found to be up-regulated in glioma and correlated with overall survival in patients with WHO grade III tumor. MCM2, MCM3 and MCM7 expression levels were of greater prognostic relevance than histological diagnosis according to the current WHO classification system.Conclusions: High expression of MCM 2, MCM3 and MCM7 mRNA correlated with poor outcome and may be clinically useful molecular prognostic markers in glioma.
Mir-27b-3p a negative regulator of dsb-dna repair. Understanding the regulation of DNA repair mechanisms is of utmost importance to identify altered cellular processes that lead to diseases such as cancer through genomic instability. In this sense, miRNAs have shown a crucial role. Specifically, miR-27b-3 biogenesis has been shown to be induced in response to DNA damage, suggesting that this microRNA has a role in DNA repair. In this work, we show that the overexpression of miR-27b-3p reduces the ability of cells to repair DNA lesions, mainly double-stranded breaks (DSB), and causes the deregulation of genes involved in homologous recombination repair (HRR), base excision repair (BER), and the cell cycle. DNA damage was induced in BALB/c-3T3 cells, which overexpress miR-27b-3p, using xenobiotic agents with specific mechanisms of action that challenge different repair mechanisms to determine their reparative capacity. In addition, we evaluated the expression of 84 DNA damage signaling and repair genes and performed pathway enrichment analysis to identify altered cellular processes. Taken together, our results indicate that miR-27b-3p acts as a negative regulator of DNA repair when over-expressed.
Mirna clusters with down-regulated expression in human colorectal cancer and their regulation. Regulation of microRNA (miRNA) expression has been extensively studied with respect to colorectal cancer (CRC), since CRC is one of the leading causes of cancer mortality worldwide. Transcriptional control of miRNAs creating clusters can be, to some extent, estimated from cluster position on a chromosome. Levels of miRNAs are also controlled by miRNAs “sponging” by long non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs). Both types of miRNA regulation strongly influence their function. We focused on clusters of miRNAs found to be down-regulated in CRC, containing miR-1, let-7, miR-15, miR-16, miR-99, miR-100, miR-125, miR-133, miR-143, miR-145, miR-192, miR-194, miR-195, miR-206, miR-215, miR-302, miR-367 and miR-497 and analysed their genome position, regulation and functions. Only evidence provided with the use of CRC in vivo and/or in vitro models was taken into consideration. Comprehensive research revealed that down-regulated miRNA clusters in CRC are mostly located in a gene intron and, in a majority of cases, miRNA clusters possess cluster-specific transcriptional regulation. For all selected clusters, regulation mediated by long ncRNA was experimentally demonstrated in CRC, at least in one cluster member. Oncostatic functions were predominantly linked with the reviewed miRNAs, and their high expression was usually associated with better survival. These findings implicate the potential of down-regulated clusters in CRC to become promising multi-targets for therapeutic manipulation.
Mitochondrial transcription factors TFAM and TFB2M regulate Serca2 gene transcription. Aims Sarco(endo)plasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase 2a (SERCA2a) transports Ca2+ by consuming ATP produced by mitochondrial respiratory chain enzymes. Messenger RNA (mRNA) for these enzymes is transcribed by mitochondrial transcription factors A (TFAM) and B2 (TFB2M). This study examined whether TFAM and TFB2M coordinately regulate the transcription of the Serca2 gene and mitochondrial genes. Methods and resultsNuclear localization of TFAM and TFB2M was demonstrated by immunostaining in rat neonatal cardiac myocytes. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assay and fluorescence correlation spectroscopy revealed that TFAM and TFB2M bind to the -122 to -114 nt and -122 to -117 nt regions of the rat Serca2 gene promoter, respectively. Mutation of these sites resulted in decreased Serca2 gene transcription. In a rat myocardial infarction model, Serca2a mRNA levels significantly correlated with those of Tfam (r 0.54, P < 0.001) and Tfb2m (r 0.73, P < 0.001). Overexpression of TFAM and TFB2M blocked hydrogen peroxide- and norepinephrine-induced decreases in Serca2a mRNA levels. In addition, overexpression of TFAM and TFB2M increased the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) copy number and mRNA levels of mitochondrial enzymes. Conclusion Although TFAM and TFB2M are recognized as mtDNA-specific transcription factors, they also regulate transcription of nuclear DNA, i.e. the Serca2 gene. Our findings suggest a novel paradigm in which the transcription of genes for mitochondrial enzymes that produce ATP and the gene for SERCA2a that consumes ATP is coordinately regulated by the same transcription factors. This mechanism may contribute to maintaining proper cardiac function.
Modulating DNA methylation in activated CD8+ T cells inhibits regulatory T cell-induced binding of Foxp3 to the CD8+ T cell IL-2 promoter. We have previously demonstrated that CD4+CD25+ regulatory T cells (Tregs) activated during the course of feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV) infection suppress CD8+ CTL function in a TGF-β-dependent fashion, inhibiting IFN-γ and IL-2 production and inducing G1 cell-cycle arrest. In this article, we describe the molecular events occurring at the IL-2 promoter leading to suppression of IL-2 production. These experiments demonstrate that Foxp3 induced by lentivirus-activated Tregs in the CD8+ target cells binds to the IL-2 promoter, actively repressing IL-2 transcription. We further demonstrate that the chronic activation of CD8+ T cells during FIV infection results in chromatin remodeling at the IL-2 promoter, specifically, demethylation of CpG residues. These DNA modifications occur during active transcription and translation of IL-2; however, these changes render the IL-2 promoter permissive to Foxp3-induced transcriptional repression. These data help explain, in part, the seemingly paradoxical observations that CD8+ T cells displaying an activation phenotype exhibit altered antiviral function. Further, we demonstrate that blocking demethylation of CpG residues at the IL-2 promoter inhibits Foxp3 binding, suggesting a potential mechanism for rescue and/or reactivation of CD8+ T cells. Using the FIV model for lentiviral persistence, these studies provide a framework for understanding how immune activation combined with Treg-mediated suppression may affect CD8+ T cell IL-2 transcription, maturation, and antiviral function.
Modulation of LDL receptor mRNA stability by phorbol esters in human liver cell culture models. In the human hepatocarcinoma cell lines HepG2 and Hep3B, low density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) mRNA levels were rapidly and transiently induced after treatment with phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate (PMA), increasing by approximately 50-fold and 8-fold, respectively, within 4 h before returning to near basal levels by 24 h. The difference in magnitude of mRNA accumulation between these cell lines is at least party due to a rapid 2- to 2.5-fold stabilization of LDLR mRNA in HepG2 cells after PMA treatment. Stabilization of LDLR mRNA in response to PMA was also observed in HH01 cells, a human hepatocyte coculture system derived from normal human liver. In both HepG2 and HH01 cells, PMA treatment induced a rapid morphological change with characteristics of cytoskeletal reorganization. The changes in morphology and stabilization of LDLR mRNA by PMA were coincident in the cell lines tested and were independent of de novo gene expression. Subcellular fractionation studies indicated that LDLR polysomes may be associated with the cytoskeleton in HepG2 cells. Disruption of the actin cytoskeleton but not microtubules abrogated stabilization of LDLR mRNA by PMA. These data suggest that components of the acting cytoskeleton are involved in the regulated decay of LDLR mRNA in some human liver cell culture systems.
Modulation of PAR expression and tryptic enzyme induced IL-4 production in mast cells by IL-29. Interleukin (IL)-29 is a relatively newly discovered cytokine, which has been shown to be actively involved in the pathogenesis of allergic inflammation. However, little is known of the effects of IL-29 on protease activated receptor (PAR) expression and potential mechanisms of cytokine production in mast cells. In the present study, we examined potential influence of IL-29 on PAR expression and cytokine production in P815 and bone marrow derived mast cells (BMMCs) by using flow cytometry analysis, quantitative real time PCR, and ELISA techniques. The results showed that IL-29 downregulated the expression of PAR-1 by up to 56.2%, but had little influence on the expression of PAR-2, PAR-3 and PAR-4. IL-29 also induced downregulation of expression of PAR-1 mRNA. However, when mast cells were pre-incubated with IL-29, thrombin-, trypsin- and tryptase-induced expression of PAR-2, PAR-3 and PAR-4 was upregulated, respectively. IL-29 provoked approximately up to 1.9-fold increase in IL-4 release when mast cells was challenged with IL-29. Administration of IL-29 blocking antibody, AG490 or LY294002 abolished IL-29-induced IL-4 release from P815 cells. It was found that IL-29 diminished trypsin- and tryptase-induced IL-4 release from P815 cells following 16. h incubation. In conclusion, IL-29 can regulate expression of PARs and tryptase- and trypsin-induced IL-4 production in mast cells, through which participates in the mast cell related inflammation.
Modulation of mRNA levels for urinary- and tissue-type plasminogen activator and plasminogen activator inhibitors 1 and 2 in human fibroblasts by interleukin 1. Plasminogen activators and their inhibitors are thought to play an important role in the regulation of a variety of pathologic processes including inflammation and wound healing. IL-1 is one inflammatory mediator which has been shown to increase release of plasminogen activator (PA) Ag and activity by mesenchymal cells such as chondrocytes and synoviocytes. We have found that rIL-1β induces a rapid and significant accumulation of both tissue- and urinary-type plasminogen activator (t-PA and u-PA) mRNA and type 1 and 2 plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI-1 and PAI-2) mRNA in MRC-5 fetal lung fibroblasts. An SV40 transformed fibroblast cell line, XP12RO, showed an identical response of PAI-1 and t-PA message levels but revealed no change in PAI-2 or u-PA mRNA levels with rIL-1β stimulation. Treatment with the transcriptional inhibitor actinomycin D blocked accumulation of t-PA, u-PA, PAI-1, and PAI-2 mRNA, suggesting that RNA synthesis is required for accumulation of all transcripts. Cycloheximide (CHX) treatment altered the rate of PAI-1 and t-PA mRNA accumulation, but both were able to increase in the absence of protein synthesis. CHX blocked the rIL-1β-induced increase in PAI-2 mRNA levels normally observed at 8 h, indicating that protein synthesis is required for this response to IL-1. The increase in u-PA message level was augmented in a synergistic fashion by CHX. These data for PAI-2 and u-PA provide evidence for short-lived proteins which act either to modulate transcription of these genes or regulate mRNA stability. Thus plasminogen activators and their inhibitors are regulated in a positive and complex fashion in the fibroblast by IL-1, suggesting an important role for these molecules and this cell type in the response to inflammation.
Molecular aspects of estrogen receptor activation factor (E-RAF) function. The estrogen receptor activation factor (E-RAF)-mediated binding of the receptor-estrogen complex to uterine nuclei was found to involve at least two classes of nuclear macromolecules: (1) the DNA, and (2) a proteinacious component. Evidences are presented to show that at least a portion of (2) is represented by the nuclear RNA polymerases. The receptor-estrogen complex associated in vivo with the nuclear RNA polymerases existed in two distinct forms which sedimented at 3.8 S and 4.8 S on sucrose density gradients. Almost 2 3 of the total radioactivity was associated with the 3.8 S species. Saturation kinetics of the two forms showed that while the 4.8 S form displayed characteristics similar to the classical type I nuclear binding site, the features displayed by the 3.8 S form were closely similar to those of the nuclear type II site. The 4.8 S species is a DNA binding form while the 3.8 S form is non-DNA binding. Anti-E-RAF IIA IgG cross-reacted with both the binding components. Goat uterine E-RAF I, IIA and IIB were purified to homogeneity as described earlier. While E-RAF IIA and IIB destabilized the native DNA structure and induced separation of the DNA strands, E-RAF I performed the opposite function. The reactions required the presence of ATP; all three of them displayed DNA-dependent ATPase activity. In an in vitro transcription system which contained purified RNA polymerase B (rat liver enzyme) and goat uterine DNA, E-RAF IIA and IIB enhanced transcription 7-fold over the control while E-RAF I totally suppressed the transcription process, irrespective of whether it was stimulated earlier by the other two E-RAF forms or not. This E-RAF property remained unchanged even after its association with the 4 S receptor-estrogen complex forming 5 S complex.
Molecular basis of the interaction between IGFBP-3 and retinoid X receptor: Role in modulation of RAR-signaling. IGFBP-3 interacts with the retinoid X receptor-α (RXRα) and retinoic acid receptor-α (RARα) and thereby interferes with the formation of RXR:RAR heterodimers. Here we identify the domains in RXRα and IGFBP-3 that participate in this interaction. When different regions of RXRα were expressed independently, we found that only the DNA-binding domain (C-domain) bound IGFBP-3. Residues in the second Zn-finger loop (Gln49, Arg52), which contribute to C-domain dimerization on DR1 response elements, proved essential to IGFBP-3 binding. In complementary studies, we found that residues within the N-terminal domain of IGFBP-3 (Thr58, Arg60) and motifs in its C-terminal domain (220LysLysLys, 228LysGlyArgLysArg) were required for interaction with RXRα and RARα. Unlike wild-type IGFBP-3, the non-retinoid receptor-binding mutants of IGFBP-3 were unable to attenuate all-trans-retinoic acid-induced transactivation of the RAR response element by RXR:RAR heterodimers. We conclude that residues in both the N- and C-terminal domains of IGFBP-3 are involved in binding the retinoid receptors, and that this interaction is essential to the modulation of RAR-signaling by IGFBP-3.
Molecular characterisation and expression analysis of SEREX-defined antigen NUCB2 in gastric epithelium, gastritis and gastric cancer. NUCB2 is an EF-hand Ca2+ binding protein that has been implicated in various physiological processes like calcium homeostasis, hypothalamic regulation of feeding and TNF receptor shedding. In our previous study we identified NUCB2 as a potential tumour antigen eliciting autoantibody responses in 5.4% of gastric cancer patients but not in the healthy individuals. The current study aimed to elucidate the molecular mechanism underlying NUCB2 immunogenicity and to gain an insight into the physiological functions of NUCB2 in the stomach. mRNA expression analysis demonstrated that NUCB2 is ubiquitously expressed in normal tissues, including lymphoid tissues, and downregulated in gastric tumours when compared with the adjacent relatively normal stomach tissues. The search for molecular alterations resulted in the identification of novel mRNA variants transcribed from an alternative promoter and expressed predominantly in gastric cancers. Western blot analysis demonstrated that the protein levels correspond to mRNA levels and revealed that NUCB2 is phosphorylated in gastric mucosa. Furthermore, a 55 kDa isoform, generated presumably by yet an unidentified post-translational modification was detected in gastric tumours and AGS gastric cancer cells but was absent in the relatively normal gastric mucosa and thereby might have served as a trigger for the immune response against NUCB2. Staining of stomach tissue microarray with anti-NUCB2 antibody revealed that it is expressed in the secretory granules of chief cells and in the cytoplasm of parietal cells in the functioning gastric glands which are lost in atrophic glands and tumour cells. Hence we propose that NUCB2 may be implicated in gastric secretion by establishing an agonist-releasable Ca 2+ store in ER or Golgi apparatus, signalling via heterotrimeric Gα proteins and/or mediating the exocytosis of the secretory granules.
Molecular clock calibrations and substitution rates as a theoretical framework for systems approaches in TLRs: A perspective for drug targeting in leishmaniasis. The Toll like receptors (TLRs) represents a set of evolutionary conserved proteins that are responsible for the recognition of the molecular patterns of several pathogens like Leishmania. Present on the mammalian macrophages, they initiate an appropriate inflammatory response against the pathogen. Recognition of the pathogen triggers a complex signaling cascade which is required to sustain an appropriate immune response. TLRs therefore hold promise in the drug discovery research as suitable drug targets. The present study is focused on a system's based phylogenetic analysis of the TLRs which focuses primarily on the importance of TLR1-9 in the infectious disease 'Leishmaniasis'. Our phylogenetic analysis has shown that TLR6 family is evolutionary conserved among all the host TLRs. Developing a lipopeptide analog as a TLR6 ligand would thus act as an agonist to the TLR6 signaling. In general, the ability to target TLR6 by an analysis of the pattern of conservation and divergence served as a general computational strategy to identify drug targets for targeting infectious diseases.
Molecular cloning and characterization of a novel β-adrenergic receptor. In an attempt to isolate new G protein-coupled receptors from turkey erythrocytes, reverse transcribed polymerase chain reaction was performed on fetal turkey blood RNA using degenerate primers based on conserved sequences present in seven transmembrane receptors. An open reading frame in one of the clones, designated 4C (497 base pairs), displayed approximately 50-60% identity to all of the previously cloned β-adrenergic receptors (β-ARs). A λ-DASH turkey genomic library was screened with a probe generated from the partial 4C cDNA, and the gene encoding this receptor was localized to a 3.5- kilobase pair HindIII fragment. Ribonuclease protection analysis of turkey lung mRNA indicated that the 3' end of the coding sequence of the 4C gene, like β3-AR, was interrupted by an intron. To obtain the cDNA sequence of 4C, RNA-polymerase chain reaction was performed using primers complementary to regions identified by ribonuclease protection analysis to be present in 4C mRNA. Comparison of the genomic and cDNA sequences of 4C indicated that the first exon encodes 414 amino acids of the protein, the second exon (68 base pairs) encodes an additional 12 residues followed by a stop codon, and the third exon is composed of 3'-untranslated sequence. The 4C receptor was transiently expressed in COS-1 cells, and the apparent affinities of a series of β-AR agonists and antagonists were determined using [125I]iodocyanopindolol. As implicated by its amino acid sequence, 4C displayed a pharmacological selectivity that was consistent with that of a β-AR but distinct from other cloned β-ARs. Isoproterenol, epinephrine, and norepinephrine stimulated cyclic AMP accumulation in a concentration- dependent manner in mouse L cells stably expressing the 4C receptor. No effect on phospholipase C activity was observed. Ribonuclease protection assays indicated that 4C mRNA exhibits a broad tissue distribution, which suggests that it may play an important role in avian physiology.
Molecular determinants of agonist discrimination by NMDA receptor subunits: Analysis of the glutamate binding site on the NR2B subunit. NMDA receptors require both L-glutamate and the co-agonist glycine for efficient channel activation. The glycine binding site of these heteromeric receptor proteins is formed by regions of the NMDAR1 (NR1) subunit that display sequence similarity to bacterial amino acid binding proteins. Here, we demonstrate that the glutamate binding site is located on the homologous regions of the NR2B subunit. Mutation of residues within the N-terminal domain and the loop region between membrane segments M3 and M4 significantly reduced the efficacy of glutamate, but not glycine, in channel gating. Some of the mutations also decreased inhibition by the glutamate antagonists, D- AP5 and R-CPP. Homology-based molecular modeling of the glutamate and glycine binding domains indicates that the NR2 and NR1 subunits use similar residues to ligate the agonists' α-aminocarboxylic acid groups, whereas differences in side chain interactions and size of aromatic residues determine ligand selectivity.
Molecular dissection of the events leading to inactivation of the FMR1 gene. The analysis of a lymphoblastoid cell line (5106), derived from a rare individual of normal intelligence with an unmethylated full mutation of the FMR1 gene, allowed us to reconstruct the chain of molecular events leading to the FMR1 inactivation and to fragile X syndrome. We found that lack of DNA methylation of the entire promoter region, including the expanded CGG repeat, correlates with methylation of lysine 4 residue on the N-tail of histone H3 (H3-K4), as in normal controls. Normal levels of FMR1 mRNA were detected by real-time fluorescent RT-PCR (0.8-1.4 times compared with a control sample), but mRNA translation was less efficient (-40%), as judged by polysome profiling, resulting in reduced levels of FMRP protein (∼30% of a normal control). These results underline once more that CGG repeat amplification per se does not prevent FMR1 transcription and FIVIRP production in the absence of DNA methylation. Surprisingly, we found by chromatin immunoprecipitation that cell line 5106 has deacetylated histones H3 and H4 as well as methylated lysine 9 on histone H3 (H3-K9), like fragile X cell lines, in both the promoter and exon 1. This indicates that these two epigenetic marks (i.e. histone deacetylation and H3-K9 methylation) can be established in the absence of DNA methylation and do not interfere with active gene transcription, contrary to expectation. Our results also suggest that the molecular pathways regulating DNA and H3-K4 methylation are independent from those regulating histone acetylation and H3-K9 methylation.
Molecular evolution of a y chromosome to autosome gene duplication in Drosophila. In contrast to the rest of the genome, the Y chromosome is restricted to males and lacks recombination. As a result, Y chromosomes are unable to respond efficiently to selection, and newly formed Y chromosomes degenerate until few genes remain. The rapid loss of genes from newly formed Y chromosomes has been well studied, but gene loss from highly degenerate Y chromosomes has only recently received attention. Here, we identify and characterize a Y to autosome duplication of the male fertility gene kl-5 that occurred during the evolution of the testacea group species of Drosophila. The duplication was likely DNA based, as other Y-linked genes remain on the Y chromosome, the locations of introns are conserved, and expression analyses suggest that regulatory elements remain linked. Genetic mapping reveals that the autosomal copy of kl-5 resides on the dot chromosome, a tiny autosome with strongly suppressed recombination. Molecular evolutionary analyses show that autosomal copies of kl-5 have reduced polymorphism and little recombination. Importantly, the rate of protein evolution of kl-5 has increased significantly in lineages where it is on the dot versus Y linked. Further analyses suggest this pattern is a consequence of relaxed purifying selection, rather than adaptive evolution. Thus, although the initial fixation of the kl-5 duplication may have been advantageous, slightly deleterious mutations have accumulated in the dot-linked copies of kl-5 faster than in the Y-linked copies. Because the dot chromosome contains seven times more genes than the Y and is exposed to selection in both males and females, these results suggest that the dot suffers the deleterious effects of genetic linkage to more selective targets compared with the Y chromosome. Thus, a highly degenerate Y chromosome may not be the worst environment in the genome, as is generally thought, but may in fact be protected from the accumulation of deleterious mutations relative to other nonrecombining regions that contain more genes.
Molecular screening and deletion analysis in spinal muscular atrophy types I-III. Autosomal recessive spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is, after cystic fibrosis, the second most common fatal monogenic disorder. The disease is characterized by degeneration of anterior horn cells leading to progressive paralysis with muscular atrophy. Depending on the clinical type (Werdnig-Hoffmann = type I, intermediate form = type II, Kugelberg-Welander = type III), SMA causes early death or increasing disability in childhood. The SMA-critical region on the long arm of chromosome 5q13.1 contains many duplicated genes and polymorphisms. Recently, two presumptive SMA genes (survival motoneuron gene = SMN, and neuronal apoptosis inhibitory protein = NAIP) have been identified. Deletions involving critical regions of these genes are very often associated with SMA, and the extent of the deletions seems to correlate in part with disease severity. We have evaluated the diagnostic and prognostic value of molecular analysis in a large number of SMA patients. 57 patients and 78 healthy relatives were molecularly screened for deletions in the SMA critical region. We demonstrated homozygous deletions removing the SMN genes in over 90% of patients, whereas nearly 45% of patients exhibited NAIP gene deletions. Large deletions involving both genes on each chromosome are generally found in patients with severe SMA (Werdnig-Hoffman cases), while mildly affected Kugelberg-Welander cases frequently show only deleted SMN genes. Molecular classification based on combined deletion sizes, however, seems not to be exact, especially for the group with chronic SMA (type II and III). Direct DNA testing of patients in whom SMA is suspected is a highly reliable, fast, and noninvasive method. The ability to detect homozygous gene deletions in a high percentage of typical SMA patients will much improve genetic counselling and prenatal diagnosis in affected families.
More than just scanning: the importance of cap-independent mRNA translation initiation for cellular stress response and cancer. The scanning model for eukaryotic mRNA translation initiation states that the small ribosomal subunit, along with initiation factors, binds at the cap structure at the 5′ end of the mRNA and scans the 5′ untranslated region (5′UTR) until an initiation codon is found. However, under conditions that impair canonical cap-dependent translation, the synthesis of some proteins is kept by alternative mechanisms that are required for cell survival and stress recovery. Alternative modes of translation initiation include cap- and/or scanning-independent mechanisms of ribosomal recruitment. In most cap-independent translation initiation events there is a direct recruitment of the 40S ribosome into a position upstream, or directly at, the initiation codon via a specific internal ribosome entry site (IRES) element in the 5′UTR. Yet, in some cellular mRNAs, a different translation initiation mechanism that is neither cap- nor IRES-dependent seems to occur through a special RNA structure called cap-independent translational enhancer (CITE). Recent evidence uncovered a distinct mechanism through which mRNAs containing N6-methyladenosine (m6A) residues in their 5′UTR directly bind eukaryotic initiation factor 3 (eIF3) and the 40S ribosomal subunit in order to initiate translation in the absence of the cap-binding proteins. This review focuses on the important role of cap-independent translation mechanisms in human cells and how these alternative mechanisms can either act individually or cooperate with other cis-acting RNA regulons to orchestrate specific translational responses triggered upon several cellular stress states, and diseases such as cancer. Elucidation of these non-canonical mechanisms reveals the complexity of translational control and points out their potential as prospective novel therapeutic targets.
Mucin gene expression during differentiation of human airway epithelia in vitro MUC4 and MUC5b are strongly induced. Mucus hypersecretion is characteristic of chronic airway diseases. However, regulatory mechanisms are poorly understood. Human airway epithelial cells grown on permeable supports at the air-liquid interface (ALI) develop a mucociliary morphology resembling that found in vivo. Such cultures provide a model for studying secretory cell lineage, differentiation, and function, and may provide insight regarding events leading to mucus hypersecretion. The mucin gene expression profile of well-differentiated human airway epithelial cells in culture has not yet been established. We compared expression of all the currently described mucin genes in poorly differentiated (conventional cultures on plastic) and well-differentiated (ALI) human nasal and bronchial epithelial cells. Differentiation-dependent upregulation of MUC3, MUC5AC, MUC5B, and MUC6 messenger RNA (mRNA) was demonstrated using reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Northern blot analysis showed a similar increase for MUC4 and demonstrated that induction of MUC4 and MUC5B expression depended on retinoic acid. MUC1, MUC2, MUC7, and MUC8 mRNAs were also detected by RT-PCR, but these genes did not appear to be strongly regulated as a function of differentiation. Mucin gene expression was similar in bronchial and nasal cells. Thus, mucociliary differentiation of human airway epithelia in vitro entails upregulation of several mucin genes.
NF-κB modifies the mammalian circadian clock through interaction with the core clock protein BMAL1. In mammals, the circadian clock coordinates cell physiological processes including inflammation. Recent studies suggested a crosstalk between these two pathways. However, the mechanism of how inflammation affects the clock is not well understood. Here, we investigated the role of the proinflammatory transcription factor NF-κB in regulating clock function. Using a combination of genetic and pharmacological approaches, we show that perturbation of the canonical NF-κB subunit RELA in the human U2OS cellular model altered core clock gene expression. While RELA activation shortened period length and dampened amplitude, its inhibition lengthened period length and caused amplitude phenotypes. NF-κB perturbation also altered circadian rhythms in the master suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) clock and locomotor activity behavior under different light/dark conditions. We show that RELA, like the clock repressor CRY1, repressed the transcriptional activity of BMAL1/CLOCK at the circadian E-box cis-element. Biochemical and biophysical analysis showed that RELA binds to the transactivation domain of BMAL1. These data support a model in which NF-kB competes with CRY1 and coactivator CBP/p300 for BMAL1 binding to affect circadian transcription. This is further supported by chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis showing that binding of RELA, BMAL1 and CLOCK converges on the E-boxes of clock genes. Taken together, these data support a significant role for NF-κB in directly regulating the circadian clock and highlight mutual regulation between the circadian and inflammatory pathways.
NFκB activation and drug sensitivity in human neoplastic cells treated with anthracyclines. NFκB (nuclear factor κB) is a transcription factor controlling, among others, cell proliferation and apoptosis. The potent activators of NFκB are anthracyclines which can activate apoptotic processes. As shown by some authors, NFκB activated by these drugs well correlated with their cytotoxic activity. The aim of this study was to assess the effects of doxorubicin (DOX) and its analogs (annamycin, WP903) on the NFκB activity in human melanoma cells: a sensitive (ME18) and a resistant to DOX (ME18/R) and its possible correlation with cell sensitivity to these drugs. In the studies, MTT (3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide) assay, ELISA test and confocal microscopy were used. As was shown, DOX, 1.7; 8.6 μM, strongly induced NFκB in ME18 cells. Annamycin (ANN), 0.3; 3.0 μM and WP903, 3.0 μM induced NFκB in ME18/R cells. PDTC (pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate) - NFκB inhibitor made ME18/R cells more sensitive to ANN and WP903 but did not affect cytotoxicity of DOX in ME18 cells. These results suggest that the influence of NFκB activation on cytotoxicity of anthracyclines is highly drug- and cell-specific.
NGF induces the expression of the VGF gene through a cAMP response element. NGF is a peptide growth factor that plays a key role in the differentiation and survival of neurons in both the PNS and CNS. NGF acts through both transcription-dependent and transcription-independent mechanisms to regulate the differentiation of PC12 cells. To better understand the regulation of gene expression by NGF, we have defined a cis-acting sequence that is immediately upstream of the transcription start site of the VGF (a2/NGF33.1) gene that is required for induction by NGF. Within this sequence is a consensus cAMP response element (CRE) embedded in a 14 base pair palindrome. Mutations in this CRE eliminate induction of the VGF gene both by NGF and by agents that act via cAMP. Although this sequence confers transcriptional induction by both NGF and cAMP, it is not sufficient to allow induction by epidermal growth factor, acidic or basic fibroblast growth factor, or phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA). Thus, this sequence defines an element that is selectively activated by NGF and cAMP. Promoter fragments from the VGF gene that include the core CRE efficiently bind the inducible transcription factor CREB, while fragments bearing mutations that eliminate NGF and cAMP inducibility fail to do so. Sequence comparisons and hybridization studies indicate that there are at least two alternatively spliced forms of VGF mRNA, and the accumulation of both of these forms is similarly regulated by NGF and cAMP.
NGF induces transient but not sustained activation of ERK in PC12 mutant cells incapable of differentiating. Activation of receptor tyrosine kinases stimulates a diverse array of cellular responses such as proliferation and differentiation. The first events in the signal transduction pathways mediated by different receptor tyrosine kinases are similar and include activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway and the induction of immediate early genes. The precise signaling pathways leading to each of the cellular responses mediated by receptor tyrosine kinases are still unknown, although it has been proposed that sustained activation of the MAPK pathway by receptor tyrosine kinases such as the nerve growth factor (NGF) receptor TrkA is sufficient to induce differentiation in PC12 cells. In the present study we examined the effect of NGF on mutant PC12 cells that were derived spontaneously in our cultures. NGF induced normal activation of immediate early genes in these cells, whereas the activation of some delayed response genes, as well as neurite outgrowth, was impaired. Furthermore, activation of the NGF-induced extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) in these cells was transient, not sustained. These results support the hypothesis that sustained activation of ERK plays an important role in activating the induction of delayed response genes. However, sustained ERK activation is not a mandatory condition for the promotion of all the features of differentiated PC12 cells, as NGF could induce transcription of the delayed response gene, transin, in PC12 mutant cells. Taken together, our results suggest that NGF induces differentiation of PC12 cells via several signaling pathways, an important one of which is the MAPK pathway.
Natural autophagy blockers, dauricine (DAC) and daurisoline (DAS), sensitize cancer cells to camptothecin-induced toxicity. Autophagy is a cellular bulk degradation pathway implicated in various diseases. Inhibition of autophagy has been regarded as a new therapeutic strategy for cancer treatment, especially in combination with chemotherapy. In our study, we identified two natural compounds, dauricine (DAC) and daurisoline (DAS), as two potent autophagy blockers through a high-content screening. DAC and DAS are alkaloids isolated from traditional Chinese medicine Rhizoma Menispermi. We systematically examined the effects of DAC and DAS on autophagy function in HeLa cells and found that DAC and DAS induced massive formation of autophagic vacuoles and lipidation of LC3. The accumulation of autophagic vacuoles and LC3 lipidation are due to blockage of autophagosome maturation as evidenced by interrupted colocalization of autophagsosome and lysosome, increased GFP-LC3/RFP-LC3 ratio and accumulation of autophagic substrate p62. Moreover, DAC and DAS impaired lysosomal function, as indicated by reduced lysosomal protease activity and increased lysosomal pH values. Importantly, we showed that DAC and DAS strongly inhibited the lysosome V-type ATPase activity. For the therapeutic potential, we found that DAC and DAS blocked the campothecin (CPT)-induced protective autophagy in HeLa cells, and dramatically sensitized the multiple cancer cells to CPT-induced cell death. In conclusion, our result shows that DAC and DAS are autophagy inhibitors which inhibit the lysosomal degradation of auophagic vacuoles, and sensitize the CPT-induced cancer cell death. The study implies the therapeutic potential of DAC and DAS in the treatment of cancers in combination of chemotherapy by inhibiting autophagy.
Nature of SLC41A1 complexes: Report on the split-ubiquitin yeast two hybrid assay. The Na+/Mg2+ exchanger SLC41A1 is involved in the pathophysiology of various disease conditions. It forms high-molecular-mass, possibly hetero-oligomeric protein complexes in transgenic HEK293 cells. Therefore, we attempted to identify binding partners of SLC41A1 by utilizing the split-ubiquitin modification of the yeast two-hybrid assay. As the most prominent binding partners in our experimental system, we identified 3-betahydroxysteroid- Δ(8),Δ(7)-isomerase and B-cell receptor associated-protein 31. Other polytons (interactors appearing in the screen more than once) included: IER3IP1, PPIB, UPF0480 protein C15orf24, SPINT2, C14orf1/PEBP28, NIFIE14, YIPF6, and KCP2. In total, 20 polytons and 38 singletons (interactors appearing in the screen only once) were identified. The polytons identified were mostly endoplasmic reticulum-located, integral proteins involved in protein maturation, N-glycosylation, protein folding, anterograde transport of proteins, protein secretion, and the regulation of apoptosis. Among the singletons, we identified SLC31A2, SLC35B1, SLC39A13, CRACM1, and MTCH2 as putative binding partners of SLC41A1. Interestingly, we did not identify interactions among SLC41A1 molecules. Most of the identified interactors are integral proteins localized in cellular compartments other than the cytoplasmic membrane, whereas SLC41A1 is targeted to the cytoplasmic membrane where it performs its core function. None of the interactors was confirmed by mass spectrometry. Instead, we identified among the proteins co-purified with strep-tagged SLC41A1: ACCA1, UBB, ATX2L, HSP7C and TBB.We therefore conclude that: (1) identified interactors form transient rather than stable complexes with SLC41A1, (2) the molecular interactors identified primarily among the polytons might contribute to the production, proper folding, and maturation of SLC41A1 in the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus, (3) most of the interactors identified among singletons might undergo similar maturation steps (post-translational modification), anterograde transport, and protein sorting as SLC41A1.
Nesfatin-1 and nesfatin-1-like peptide suppress growth hormone synthesis via the AC/PKA/CREB pathway in mammalian somatotrophs. Nesfatin-1 (NESF) and NESF-like peptide (NLP), encoded in nucleobindin 2 and 1 (NUCB2 and NUCB1), respectively, are orphan ligands and metabolic factors. We hypothesized that NESF and NLP suppress growth hormone (GH) synthesis, and aimed to determine whether mammalian somatotrophs are a source and site of action of these peptides. Using immortalized rat somatotrophs (GH3 cells), NUCB expression was determined by qPCR, immunofluorescence and Western blot. NESF and NLP binding to GH3 cells was tested using fluorescence imaging. Both time- and concentration-dependent studies were performed to test whether NESF and NLP affect GH. Moreover, the ability of these peptides to modulate the effects of ghrelin, and cell-signaling pathways were studied. GH3 cells express NUCB mRNAs and protein. Labeled NESF and NLP bind to the surface of GH3 cells, and incubation with either NESF or NLP decreased GH mRNA and protein expression, downregulated pit-1 mRNA, and blocked the GH stimulatory effects of ghrelin. Pre-incubation with either of these peptides reduced CREB phosphorylation by an AC-activator, but not when PKA was directly activated by a cAMP analog. Our results indicate that rat somatotrophs are a source of NUCBs, and that NESF and NLP downregulate GH synthesis through the AC/PKA/CREB signaling pathway.
Network of three specific microRNAs influence type 2 diabetes through inducing insulin resistance in muscle cell lines. Insulin resistance has been implicated as one of the best predictors for type 2 diabetes. Growing evidence propose the involvement of microRNAs (miRNAs) as short regulatory molecules in modulating and inducing resistance. In this regard, we have investigated the role of three selected miRNAs in insulin resistance development (miR-135, miR-202, and miR-214), via assessing glucose uptake levels in C2C12 and L6 muscle cell lines. Interestingly, miRNA-transfected cells demonstrated a significantly different glucose uptake compared to the positive control cells. In addition, we evaluated the expression levels of three putative miRNA target genes (Rho-associated coiled-coil containing protein kinase 1, serine/threonine kinase 2, and vesicle-associated membrane protein 2) in transfected cells, recruiting luciferase assay. Our results indicated the targeting and downregulation of Rho-associated coiled-coil containing protein kinase 1 and serine/threonine kinase 2 genes in all miR-transfected cell lines (P ≤ 0.05), but not for vesicle-associated membrane protein 2. MiRNA upregulation led to the poor stimulation of glucose uptake through insulin and developed insulin-resistant phenotype in both muscle cell lines. Our study showed the role of three miRNAs in the induction of insulin resistance in cell lines and making them prone to type 2 diabetes development.
Neurochemical characterization of neurons expressing melanin-concentrating hormone receptor 1 in the mouse hypothalamus. Melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) is a hypothalamic neuropeptide that acts via MCH receptor 1 (MCHR1) in the mouse. It promotes positive energy balance; thus, mice lacking MCH or MCHR1 are lean, hyperactive, and resistant to diet-induced obesity. Identifying the cellular targets of MCH is an important step to understanding the mechanisms underlying MCH actions. We generated the Mchr1-cre mouse that expresses cre recombinase driven by the MCHR1 promoter and crossed it with a tdTomato reporter mouse. The resulting Mchr1-cre/tdTomato progeny expressed easily detectable tdTomato fluorescence in MCHR1 neurons, which were found throughout the olfactory system, striatum, and hypothalamus. To chemically identify MCH-targeted cell populations that play a role in energy balance, MCHR1 hypothalamic neurons were characterized by colabeling select hypothalamic neuropeptides with tdTomato fluorescence. TdTomato fluorescence colocalized with dynorphin, oxytocin, vasopressin, enkephalin, thyrothropin-releasing hormone, and corticotropin-releasing factor immunoreactive cells in the paraventricular nucleus. In the lateral hypothalamus, neurotensin, but neither orexin nor MCH neurons, expressed tdTomato. In the arcuate nucleus, both Neuropeptide Y and proopiomelanocortin cells expressed tdTomato. We further demonstrated that some of these arcuate neurons were also targets of leptin action. Interestingly, MCHR1 was expressed in the vast majority of leptin-sensitive proopiomelanocortin neurons, highlighting their importance for the orexigenic actions of MCH. Taken together, this study supports the use of the Mchr1-cre mouse for outlining the neuroanatomical distribution and neurochemical phenotype of MCHR1 neurons.
Neurogenic transdifferentiation of human adipose-derived stem cells? A critical protocol reevaluation with special emphasis on cell proliferation and cell cycle alterations. Adipose-derived stem cells (ASCs) are reported to display multilineage differentiation potential, including neuroectodermal pathways. The aim of the present study was to critically re-evaluate the potential neurogenic (trans-)differentiation capacity of ASCs using a neurogenic induction protocol based on the combination of isobutylmethylxanthine (IBMX), indomethacin and insulin. ASCs isolated from lipo-aspirate samples of five healthy female donors were characterized and potential neurogenic (trans-)differentiation was assessed by means of immunohistochemistry and gene expression analyses. Cell proliferation and cell cycle alterations were studied, and the expression of CREB/ATF transcription factors was analyzed. ASCs expressed CD59, CD90 and CD105, and were tested negative for CD34 and CD45. Under neurogenic induction, ASCs adopted a characteristic morphology comparable to neur(on)al progenitors and expressed musashi1, β-III-tubulin and nestin. Gene expression analyses revealed an increased expression of β-III-tubulin, GFAP, vimentin and BDNF, as well as SOX4 in induced ASCs. Cell proliferation was significantly reduced under neurogenic induction; cell cycle analyses showed a G2-cell cycle arrest accompanied by differential expression of key regulators of cell cycle progression. Differential expression of CREB/ATF transcription factors could be observed on neurogenic induction, pointing to a decisive role of the cAMP-CREB/ATF system. Our findings may point to a potential neurogenic (trans-)differentiation of ASCs into early neur(on)al progenitors, but do not present definite evidence for it. Especially, the adoption of a neural progenitor cell-like morphology must not automatically be misinterpreted as a specific characteristic of a respective (trans-)differentiation process, as this may as well be caused by alterations of cell cycle progression.
Neuronal K+/Cl- co-transporter (KCC2) transgenes lacking neurone restrictive silencer element recapitulate CNS neurone-specific expression and developmental up-regulation of endogenous KCC2 gene. The K+/Cl- co-transporter KCC2 maintains the low intracellular chloride concentration required for fast synaptic inhibition and is exclusively expressed in neurones of the CNS. Here, we show that the KCC2 gene (alias SLC12a5) has multiple transcription start sites and characterize the activity of 6.8 kb of mouse KCC2 gene regulatory sequence (spanning 1.4 kb upstream from exon 1 to exon 2) using luciferase reporters. Overexpression of neurone-restrictive silencer factor repressed the reporter activity in vitro, apparently via a neurone restrictive silencer element (NRSEKCC2) within intron 1 of the mouse KCC2 gene. In transgenic mice, however, KCC2 reporters with or without deletion of the NRSEKCC2 were expressed exclusively in neurones and predominantly in the CNS with a similar pattern and developmental upregulation as endogenous KCC2. Moreover, a third transgene with just a 1.4-kb KCC2 promoter region lacking the NRSEKCC2-bearing intron 1 was still expressed predominantly in neural tissues. Thus, developmental up-regulation of the KCC2 gene does not require NRSE KCC2 and the 1.4-kb KCC2 promoter is largely sufficient for neurone-specific expression of KCC2.
Neuronal chromatin dynamics of imprinting in development and disease. Epigenetic mechanisms play essential roles in mammalian neurodevelopment and genetic mutations or chromosomal deletions or duplications of epigenetically regulated loci or pathways result in several important human neurodevelopmental disorders. Postnatal mammalian neurons have among the most structured and dynamic nuclear organization of any cell type. Human chromosome 15q11-13 is an imprinted locus required for normal neurodevelopment and is regulated by a plethora of epigenetic mechanisms in neurons, including multiple noncoding RNAs, parentally imprinted transcription and histone modifications, large-scale chromatin decondensation, and homologous pairing in mature neurons of the mammalian brain. Here, we describe the multiple epigenetic layers regulating 15q11-13 gene expression and chromatin dynamics in neurons and propose a model of how noncoding RNAs may influence the unusual neuronal chromatin structure and dynamics at this locus. We also discuss the need for improved neuronal cell culture systems that model human 15q11-13 and other neurodevelopmental disorders with epigenetic bases in order to test the mechanisms of chromatin dynamics and nuclear organization in neurons. Induced pluripotent stem cells and other stem cell technologies hold promise for improved understanding of and therapeutic interventions for multiple human neurodevelopmental disorders.
Neurotrophin channeling of neural progenitor cell differentiation. The act of defining neuropoiefic progenitor/stem cells is still in its early phases. Epidermal growth factor (EGF) stimulates extended proliferation of aggregates of subventricular striatal cells, taken from E15 mouse striatum, termed neurospheres in liquid culture. We have shown here and in previous work, using either immunohistochemistry or RT-PCR, that neurosphere cells express 13 cytokines (32 tested) and 20 cytokine receptors (28 tested), with 11 potential paracrine and nine potential autocrine loops. The neurotrophin receptors, Trk A, B, and C, were all expressed. Using a newly developed FACS single cell deposition technique, we evaluated the capacity of single EGF stimulated neurosphere cells to respond to the ligands for Trk A and B, nerve growth factor (NGF), and brain-derived neurotrophin factor (BDNF). Addition of NGF or BDNF to EGF for 14 days had no effect, but removal of EGF at day 14 with subsequent addition of BDNF or NGF resulted in an increase in neuronal and astroglial, but not oligodendrocyte, colony cells at 21 and 28 days of culture for BDNF, and of both cell types at 28 days for NGF. Tri-lineage colonies increased at day 21 with BDNF and at day 28 for both NGF and BDNF. Gross colony morphology also showed changes with neurotrophin addition, forming multiple individual cell balls or filamentous spreads. When EGF was withdrawn, a threshold effect was observed, with small, but not large, colonies ceasing growth. BDNF and NGF showed no effects on cell proliferation when compared to EGF controls, as determined by 5′-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU) incorporation and thus, they appear to affect differentiation of progenitor cells. These data indicate a sequential action of cytokines with EGF maintaining viability and proliferation and blocking differentiation. Removal of EGF is then permissive for the differentiating effects of BDNF and NGF. These data further indicate that the majority of EGF neurosphere clones have neurotrophin dependent tri-lineage potential.
New 5' regions of the murine and human genes for DNA (cytosine-5)- methyltransferase. DNA (cytosine-5)-methyltransferases (EC 2.1.1.37) maintain patterns of methylated cytosine residues in the mammalian genome; faithful maintenance of methylation patterns is required for normal development of mice, and aberrant methylation patterns are associated with certain human tumors and developmental abnormalities. The organization of coding sequences at the 5'- end of the murine and human DNA methyltransferase genes was investigated, and the DNA methyltransferase open reading frame was found to be longer than previously suspected. Expression of the complete open reading frame by in vitro transcription-translation and by transfection of expression constructs into COS7 cells resulted in the production of an active DNA methyltransferase of the same apparent mass as the endogenous protein, while translation from the second inframe ATG codon produced a slightly smaller but fully active protein. Characterization of mRNA 5' sequences and the intron-exon structure of the 5' region of the murine and human genes indicated that a previously described promoter element (Rouleau, J., Tanigawa, G., and Szyf, M. (1992) J. Biol. Chem. 267, 7368-7377) actually lies in an intron that is more than 5 kilobases downstream of the transcription start sites.
New evidence on tumor suppressor activity of PTEN and KLLN in papillary thyroid carcinoma. This study aimed to address the hypothesis that the expression of PTEN and KLLN tumor suppressor genes could diminish in papillary thyroid cancer (PTC) compared to paired normal tissue (PNT) and multinodular goiter (MNG). PTEN and KLLN expressions were assessed at both mRNA and protein levels in 82 tissue samples, including 30 PTC, 30 PNT, and 26 MNG using SYBR-Green Real-Time PCR and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), respectively. Bioinformatics studies were performed to evaluate the genomic location and the genes promoter region. The mRNA expression of PTEN and KLLN in PTC was significantly lower than PNT (PTEN, P = 0.0033; KLLN, P = 0.0005). A significant decrease in the mRNA level of KLLN was also observed in PTC than MNG (P = 0.0304). Decreased level of PTEN mRNA (odds ratio=0.391; P = 0.013) or KLLN mRNA (odds ratio=0.023; P = 0.025) was associated with an increased risk of PTC tumorigenesis. Areas under the ROC curve for PTEN and KLLN were 0.69 and 0.78, respectively. PTEN and KLLN protein expressions in PTC compared to PNT or MNG were not significantly different. The bioinformatics studies revealed the sequence near the promoter region is lowly conserved across species. Four GC boxes were found upstream of the PTEN transcription start site (TSS), and one TATA box and one GC box were found upstream of KLLN TSS. The results suggest PTEN and KLLN are the two tumor suppressor genes that decreasing or loss of both of them occurs in sporadic PTC tumorigenesis. It appears they could have a promising application in both diagnostic and therapeutic areas.
New human erg isoforms generated by alternative splicing are transcriptional activators. The erg gene is a member of the ets gene family. ETS proteins have been shown to bind specifically the (GGAA/T) motif and to transactivate via this consensus sequence. The human erg products exhibit ~70% homology with ETS proteins in their DNA-binding domain. We have isolated three erg cDNAs from a human fetal liver library. Two of them are different from the previously described erg-1 and erg-2 cDNAs (Rao , Science, 1987, 237, 635-639), in the middle of their coding sequence and in their 5' part where a novel initiation codon is introduced. These isoforms are generated by alternative RNA splicing from a single gene that leads to the inclusion or exclusion of different exon sequences. The three cDNAs expressed by an in vitro transcription-translation system direct the synthesis of proteins of ~38, 49 and 55kDa. These in vitro erg products were tested for their DNA-binding activity by gel mobility-shift assays with different probes containing the ETS-specific binding site. The results indicated that all these erg isoforms are able to bind the ETS binding site in a specific manner. Our data using transient transfection assays indicate that erg protein isoforms function as transcriptional activators.
Nitric Oxide Synthases: Gene Structure and Regulation. The nitric oxide (NO) synthases (NOSs) are a family of complex enzymes that catalyze the five-electron oxidation of L-arginine to form NO and L-citrulline. They are best characterized as cytochrome P-450-like hemeproteins that depend on molecular oxygen, nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide-phosphate (NADPH), flavins, and tetrahydrobiopterin. The NOSs constitute a family with at least three distinct isoforms. In order of their molecular characterization, these include the neuronal (nNOS, NOS1), inducible (iNOS, NOS2), and endothelial constitutive (ecNOS, NOS3) NOSs. Till date, three distinct genes encoding the family of human NOS proteins have been identified and characterized. Analysis of these complex loci reveals that the mechanisms implicated in controlling mRNA expression and structure are unique for the different NOS isoforms. The human nNOS, iNOS, and ecNOS genes are not clustered in the genome, but, rather, are present on human chromosomes 12, 17, and 7, respectively. Detailed analysis of the genomic organization and exodintron structure, including exon sizes and the locations of intronic splice junctions, indicates a remarkably high degree of relatedness among the three genes. This is especially evident upon comparison of the calcium/calmodulin-dependent nNOS and ecNOS. The high degree of conservation among the various NOS isoforms may reflect gene duplication and chromosome transposition events. The only related gene in the human genome is cytochrome P-450 reductase. Regulation of NO synthesis and release occurs at the levels of enzyme activity and mRNA synthesis. The nNOS mRNA is structurally diverse as a consequence of alternative promoters and alternate splicing. The iNOS gene is predominantly regulated at the level of transcription by synergistic combinations of proinflammatory cytokines and bacterial wall products. Changes in mRNA levels of the ecNOS following endothelium activation are mediated by altered rates of transcription as well as by the intriguing process of changes in mRNA stability.
Nodal-dependant Cripto signaling in ES cells: From stem cells to tumor biology. Embryonic stem (ES) cells have provided a valid model to understand early events of mammalian lineage specification and differentiation, leading to important insights into the mechanisms that control embryogenesis at the molecular and cellular levels. Furthermore, ES cells have recently evoked great scientific interest as ideal candidates for the generation of tissues for transplantation therapies. In this respect, particular attention has been paid to the molecules and signaling pathways triggering ES cell differentiation. The EGF-CFC Cripto protein is a key regulator of ES cells fate. The cripto gene is expressed both in ES cells and during the early phases of embryo development, while, in the adult, it is reactivated in a wide range of epithelial cancers. This review will discuss recent findings on the molecular basis of Cripto signaling in ES cell differentiation, providing an intriguing link between stem cell and tumor biology.
Notch signaling induces a transcriptionally permissive state at the Complement C3d Receptor 2 (CR2) promoter in a pre-B cell model. During mammalian lymphoid development, Notch signaling is necessary at multiple stages of T lymphopoiesis, including lineage commitment, and later stages of T cell effector differentiation. In contrast, outside of a defined role in the development of splenic marginal zone B cells, there is conflicting evidence regarding whether Notch signaling plays functional roles in other B cell sub-populations. Complement receptor 2 (CR2) modulates BCR-signaling and is tightly regulated throughout differentiation. During B lymphopoiesis, CR2 is detected on immature and mature B cells with high surface expression on marginal zone B cells. Here, we have explored the possibility that Notch regulates human CR2 transcriptional activity using in vitro models including a co-culture system, co-transfection gene reporters and chromatin accessibility assays. We provide evidence that Notch signaling regulates CR2 promoter activity in a mature B cell line, as well as the induction of endogenous CR2 mRNA in a non-expressing pre-B cell line. The dynamics of endogenous gene activation suggests additional unidentified factors are required to mediate surface CR2 expression on immature and mature B lineage cells.
Novel CTCF binding at a site in exon1A of BCL6 is associated with active histone marks and a transcriptionally active locus. BCL6 is a zinc-finger transcriptional repressor, which is highly expressed in germinal centre B-cells and is essential for germinal centre formation and T-dependent antibody responses. Constitutive BCL6 expression is sufficient to produce lymphomas in mice. Deregulated expression of BCL6 due to chromosomal rearrangements, mutations of a negative autoregulatory site in the BCL6 promoter region and aberrant post-translational modifications have been detected in a number of human lymphomas. Tight lineage and temporal regulation of BCL6 is, therefore, required for normal immunity, and abnormal regulation occurs in lymphomas. CCCTC-binding factor (CTCF) is a multi-functional chromatin regulator, which has recently been shown to bind in a methylation-sensitive manner to sites within the BCL6 first intron. We demonstrate a novel CTCF-binding site in BCL6 exon1A within a potential CpG island, which is unmethylated both in cell lines and in primary lymphoma samples. CTCF binding, which was found in BCL6-expressing cell lines, correlated with the presence of histone variant H2A.Z and active histone marks, suggesting that CTCF induces chromatin modification at a transcriptionally active BCL6 locus. CTCF binding to exon1A was required to maintain BCL6 expression in germinal centre cells by avoiding BCL6-negative autoregulation. Silencing of CTCF in BCL6-expressing cells reduced BCL6 mRNA and protein expression, which is sufficient to induce B-cell terminal differentiation toward plasma cells. Moreover, lack of CTCF binding to exon1A shifts the BCL6 local chromatin from an active to a repressive state. This work demonstrates that, in contexts in which BCL6 is expressed, CTCF binding to BCL6 exon1A associates with epigenetic modifications indicative of transcriptionally open chromatin.
Novel Rab GAP-like protein, CIP85, interacts with connexin43 and induces its degradation. Gap junctions play critical roles in tissue function and homeostasis. Connexin43 (Cx43) is a major gap junction protein expressed in the mammalian heart and other tissues and may be regulated by its interaction with other cellular proteins. Using the yeast two-hybrid screen, we identified a novel Cx43-interacting protein of 85-kDa, CIP85, which contains a single TBC, SH3, and RUN domain, in addition to a short coiled coil region. Homologues containing this unique combination of domains were found in human, D. melanogaster, and C. elegans. CIP85 mRNA is expressed ubiquitously in mouse and human tissues. In vitro interaction assays and in vivo co-immunoprecipitation experiments confirmed the interaction of endogenous CIP85 with Cx43. In vitro interaction experiments using CIP85 mutants with in-frame deletions of the TBC, SH3, and RUN domains indicated that the SH3 domain of CIP85 is involved in its interaction with Cx43. Conversely, analysis of Cx43 mutants with proline to alanine substitutions in the two proline-rich regions of Cx43 revealed that the P 253LSP256 motif is an important determinant of the ability of Cx43 to interact with CIP85. Laser-scanning confocal microscopy showed that CIP85 colocalized with Cx43 at the cell periphery, particularly in areas reminiscent of gap junction plaques. The functional importance of the interaction between CIP85 and Cx43 was suggested by the observation that CIP85 appears to induce the turnover of Cx43 through the lysosomal pathway.
Novel Variant of OCT4, Named OCT4B5, is Highly Expressed in Human Pluripotent Cells. Alternative promoter and alternative splicing are two important mechanisms of gene regulation and protein diversity in different physiological contexts of eukaryotes, especially in stem cells and developmental stages. Pou5f1 gene which codes the stemness marker OCT4, utilizes alternative splicing and promoter mechanisms, which result in generation of multiple spliced variants and subsequently multiple protein isoforms. By far, nine variants of OCT4 (OCT4A, OCT4B, OCT4B1, OCT4B2, OCT4B3, OCT4B4, OCT4C, OCT4C1, and OCT4D) have been introduced. It has been well established that OCT4A plays essential roles in early developmental stages as well as maintenance of stemness in embryonic stem cells (ESCs). However, the roles and functions of other variants and isoforms of OCT4 in biological systems are less appreciated. In this study, we report a new OCT4 variant, designated as OCT4B5. RT-PCR assay on different human cell lines including pluripotent, normal and cancer cells showed that OCT4B5 is expressed at variable level in different cell lines. By semi-quantifying of OCT4B5 expression in pluripotent and differentiated states of NT2 cell lines, we reveal that this variant of OCT4 is highly expressed in undifferentiated state and its expression is down-regulated upon differentiation. Compared to OCT4A which is sharply down-regulated in retinoic acid induced differentiation of NT2 cell line, the expression of OCT4B5 remains at low level in differentiated state. Overall, this study emphasizes the complexity of OCT4 gene expression and regulation in different states of stem cells and physiological contexts. [Figure not available: see fulltext.]
Novel markers of gene methylation and expression in breast cancer. An optimized methylation-sensitive restriction fingerprinting technique was used to search for differentially methylated CpG islands in the tumor genome and detected seven genes subject to abnormal epigenetic regulation in breast cancer: SEMA6B, BIN1, VCPIP1, LAMC3, KCNH2, CACNG4, and PSMF1. For each gene, the rate of promoter methylation and changes in expression were estimated in tumor and morphologically intact paired specimens of breast tissue (N = 100). Significant methylation rates of 38, 18, and 8% were found for SEMA6B, BIN1, and LAMC3, respectively. The genes were not methylated in morphologically intact breast tissue. The expression of SEMA6B, BIN1, VCPIP1, LAMC3, KCNH2, CACNG4, and PSMF1 was decreased in 44-94% of tumor specimens by the real-time RT-PCR assay. The most profound changes in SEMA6B and LAMC3 suggest that these genes can be included in biomarker panels for breast cancer diagnosis. Fine methylation mapping of the most frequently methylated CpG islands (SEMA6B, BIN1, and LAMC3) provides a fundamental basis for developing efficient methylation tests for these genes.
Novel roles of GATA1 in regulation of angiogenic factor AGGF1 and endothelial cell function. AGGF1 is an angiogenic factor, and its deregulation is associated with a vascular malformation consistent with Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome (KTS). This study defines the molecular mechanism for transcriptional regulation of AGGF1 expression. Transcription of AGGF1 starts at two nearby sites, ∼367 and ∼364 bp upstream of the translation start site. Analyses of 5′- and 3′-serial promoter deletions defined the core promoter/regulatory elements, including two repressor sites (from ∼1971 to ∼3990 and from ∼7521 to ∼8391, respectively) and two activator sites (a GATA1 consensus binding site from ∼295 to ∼300 and a second activator site from ∼129 to ∼159). Both the GATA1 site and the second activator site are essential for AGGF1 expression. A similar expression profile was found for GATA1andAGGF1in cells (including various endothelial cells) and tissues. Electrophoretic mobility shift assay and chromatin immunoprecipitation assays demonstrated that GATA1 was able to bind to the AGGF1 DNA in vitro and in vivo. Overexpression of GATA1 increased expression of AGGF1. We identified one rare polymorphism ∼294C>T in a sporadic KTS patient, which is located in the GATA1 site, disrupts binding of GATA1 to DNA, and abolishes the GATA1 stimulatory effect on transcription of AGGF1. Knockdown of GATA1 expression by siRNA reduced expression of AGGF1, and resulted in endothelial cell apoptosis and inhibition of endothelial capillary vessel formation and cell migration, which was rescued by purified recombinant human AGGF1 protein. These results demonstrate that GATA1 regulates expression of AGGF1 and reveal a novel role for GATA1 in endothelial cell biology and angiogenesis.
Nuclear localization and histone acetylation: A pathway for chromatin opening and transcriptional activation of the human β-globin locus. We have investigated the mechanism, structural correlates, and cis- acting elements involved in chromatin opening and gene activation, using the human β-globin locus as a model. Full transcriptional activity of the human β-globin locus requires the locus control region (LCR), composed of a series of nuclease hypersensitive sites located upstream of this globin gene cluster. Our previous analysis of naturally occurring and targeted LCR deletions revealed that chromatin opening and transcriptional activity in the endogenous β-globin locus are dissociable and dependent on distinct cis- acting elements. We now report that general histone H3/H4 acetylation and relocation of the locus away from centromeric heterochromatin in the interphase nucleus are correlated and do not require the LCR. In contrast, LCR-dependent promoter activation is associated with localized histone H3 hyperacetylation at the LCR and the transcribed β-globin-promoter and gene. On the basis of these results, we suggest a multistep model for gene activation; localization away from centromeric heterochromatin is required to achieve general hyperacetylation and an open chromatin structure of the locus, whereas a mechanism involving LCR/promoter histone H3 hyperacetylation is required for high-level transcription of the β-globin genes.
Oct-1 protein promotes functional transcription complex assembly on the mouse mammary tumor virus promoter. The ubiquitous transcription factor Oct-1 stimulates basal transcription from the mouse mammary tumor virus (MMTV) promoter by binding to octamer- related sequences present in the proviral long terminal repeat. The mechanism of transcriptional activation by Oct-1 was investigated using in vitro transcription assays with a HeLa cell nuclear extract depleted of endogenous Oct-1. Oct-1-mediated transcriptional activation could be reconstituted by addition of bacterially expressed recombinant Oct-1 protein. The stimulatory effect of Oct-1 was observed only when the protein was present during formation of transcription preinitiation complexes and not when added to fully assembled complexes. Furthermore, assembled MMTV preinitiation complexes were resistant to inhibition by a competitor oligonucleotide containing MMTV octamer-related elements that could eliminate Oct-1-mediated stimulation when present during the assembly process. The time course of transcription complex assembly revealed that Oct-1 increases the number of templates on which functional transcription complexes form. Finally, experiments designed to exploit the sensitivity of discrete steps in transcription complex assembly to the anionic detergent Sarkosyl demonstrated that Oct-1 must be present during formation of an early intermediate in the assembly process.
Oncostatin M up-regulates the ER chaperone Grp78/BiP in liver cells. OSM, a cytokine of the IL-6-type cytokine family, regulates inflammatory processes (like the acute phase response), tissue remodeling, angiogenesis, cell differentiation and proliferation. Inflammation is discussed to favor carcinogenesis and the inflammatory cytokine OSM was lately described to up-regulate HIF-1α, whose up-regulation is also observed in many cancers. In this study we demonstrate that OSM, and to a lesser degree IL-6, induces the expression of Grp78/BiP, an ER chaperone associated with tumor development and poor prognosis in cancer. In contrast, IFN-γ or TNF-α had no effect on Grp78 expression. The up-regulation seems to be specific to liver cells, as it occurs in hepatocytes and hepatoma cells but not in prostate, melanoma, breast or kidney cells. OSM does not lead to up-regulation of Grp94, enhanced XBP-1 mRNA splicing or phosphorylation of eIF2α, indicating that it is not associated to a general ER stress response. Analysis of the underlying mechanism showed that Grp78 is up-regulated by transcriptional processes which are to the greater part, though not completely, dependent on MEK/Erk activation.
Ontogeny and tissue distribution of human GAD expression. One of the major β-cell autoantigens associated with IDDM is GAD. Although GAD expression has been detected in adult islets, transcriptional expression of the GAD genes has not been reported during human pancreatic ontogeny. We therefore analyzed patterns of GAD gene transcription by quantitating the mRNAs encoding both the 65- and 67-kDa isoforms (GAD65 and GAD67, respectively) in human fetal, postnatal, and adult pancreases, as well as in isolated adult islets, and examined their tissue-specific expression. Significant levels of pancreatic GAD65 transcripts were already detected at 13 weeks of gestation and were expressed at higher levels in the fetal and infantile pancreas than in the adult pancreas. Isolated adult pancreatic islets were highly enriched in GAD65 mRNA. In contrast, GAD67 transcripts were not detectable in fetal and postnatal pancreases. In addition to the pancreas, marked GAD expression was detected in the brain, whereas other tissues examined contained either low or undetectable GAD transcripts. Triple immunofluorescent staining of fetal and adult pancreases revealed colocalization of GAD65 with α- and β-cells. In the fetal pancreas, strong immunoreactivity for GAD65 was also evident in epithelial cells, which lacked expression of insulin or glucagon, some of which were present in the ductal epithelium, suggesting that GAD65 expression might correlate with endocrine determination. In summary, 1) this is the first demonstration of GAD65 expression in the human fetal pancreas, implicating a potential role during islet development, and 2) GAD65 may be a useful marker for the identification of primitive islet cells.
Open chromatin dynamics reveals stage-specific transcriptional networks in hiPSC-based neurodevelopmental model. Chromatin accessibility to transcription factors (TFs) strongly influences gene transcription and cell differentiation. However, a mechanistic understanding of the transcriptional control during the neuronal differentiation of human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs), a promising cellular model for mental disorders, remains elusive. Here, we carried out additional analyses on our recently published open chromatin regions (OCRs) profiling at different stages of hiPSC neuronal differentiation. We found that the dynamic changes of OCR during neuronal differentiation highlighted cell stage-specific gene networks, and the chromatin accessibility at the core promoter region of a gene correlates with the corresponding transcript abundance. Within the cell stage-specific OCRs, we identified the binding of cell stage-specific TFs and observed a lag of a neuronal TF binding behind the mRNA expression of the corresponding TF. Interestingly, binding footprints of NEUROD1 and NEUROG2, both of which induce high efficient conversion of hiPSCs to glutamatergic neurons, were among those most enriched in the relatively mature neurons. Furthermore, TF network analysis showed that both NEUROD1 and NEUROG2 were present in the same core TF network specific to more mature neurons, suggesting a pivotal mechanism of epigenetic control of neuronal differentiation and maturation. Our study provides novel insights into the epigenetic control of glutamatergic neurogenesis in the context of TF networks, which may be instrumental to improving hiPSC modeling of neuropsychiatric disorders.
Organization of the Human Aromatase P450 (CYP19) Gene. The human CYP19 (P450arom) gene is located in the 21.2 region on the long arm of chromosome 15 (15q21.2). This gene spans a region that consists of a 30 kb coding region and a 93 kb regulatory region ∼ 123 kb total length). Its regulatory region contains at least 10 distinct promoters regulated in a tissue- or signaling pathway-specific manner. The Human Genome Project data published in 2000 enabled us to accurately align these promoters within the 93 kb regulatory region of the P450arom gene. Each promoter is regulated by a distinct set of regulatory sequences in DNA and transcription factors that bind to these specific sequences. In most vertebrates, P450arom expression is under the control of gonad- and brain-specific promoters. In humans, however, there are at least eight additional promoters that were apparently recruited throughout evolution, possibly via alterations in DNA. A critical mechanism that permits the use of such a large number of promoters seems to be the extremely promiscuous nature of the common splice acceptor site because, with activation of each promoter, an untranslated first exon is spliced onto this common junction immediately upstream of the translation start site in the coding region. These partially tissue-specific promoters are used in the gonads, bone, brain, vascular tissue, adipose tissue, skin, fetal liver, and placenta for estrogen biosynthesis necessary for human physiology. Ovary and testis use promoter II, which is located immediately upstream of the coding region. The adipose tissue in general, including adipose tissue of the disease-free breast, on the other hand, maintains low levels of aromatase expression primarily via promoter I.4, which lies 73 kb upstream of the common coding region. Promoters I.3 and II are used only minimally in normal breast adipose tissue. Promoter II and I.3 activities in breast cancer tissue, however, are strikingly increased. Additionally, the endothelial-type promoter 1.7 is also upregulated in breast cancer. Therefore, breast tumor tissue takes advantage of four promoters (II 1.3, 1.7, and 1.4) for aromatase expression and estrogen production. The sum of P450arom mRNA species arising from these four promoters contributes significantly to elevated levels of total P450arom mRNA in breast cancer in contrast to the normal breast that uses promoter I.4. Because each mRNA species contains the identical coding region regardless of the variable untranslated first exon, the encoded protein functions as the aromatase enzyme in each case.
Oxidative stress in prostate hypertrophy and carcinogenesis. Aging, significant impairment of the oxidation/reduction balance, infection, and inflammation are recognized risk factors of benign hyperplasia and prostate cancer. Chronic symptomatic and asymptomatic prostate inflammatory processes generate significantly elevated levels of reactive oxygen and nitrogen species, and halogenated compounds. Prostate cancer patients showed significantly higher lipid peroxidation and lower antioxidant levels in peripheral blood than healthy controls, whereas patients with prostate hyperplasia did not show such symptoms. Oxidative/nitrosative/halogenative stress causes DNA modifications leading to genome instability that may initiate carcinogenesis; however, it was shown that oxidative damage alone is not sufficient to initiate this process. Peroxidation products induced by reactive oxygen and nitrogen species seem to take part in epigenetic mechanisms regulating genome activity. One of the most common changes occurring in more than 90% of all analyzed prostate cancers is the silencing of GSTP1 gene activity. The gene encodes glutathione transferase, an enzyme participating in detoxification processes. Prostate hyperplasia is often accompanied by chronic inflammation and such a relationship was not observed in prostate cancer. The participation of infection and inflammation in the development of hyperplasia is unquestionable and these factors probably also take part in initiating the early stages of prostate carcinogenesis. Thus it seems that therapeutic strategies that prevent genome oxidative damage in situations involving oxidative/nitrosative/halogenative stress, i.e. use of antioxidants, plant steroids, antibiotics, and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, could help prevent carcinogenesis.
PAM forms an atypical SCF ubiquitin ligase complex that ubiquitinates and degrades NMNAT2. PHR (PAM/Highwire/RPM-1) proteins are conserved RING E3 ubiquitin ligases that function in developmental processes, such as axon termination and synapse formation, as well as axon degeneration. At present, our understanding of how PHR proteins form ubiquitin ligase complexes remains incomplete. Although genetic studies indicate NMNAT2 is an important mediator of PHR protein function in axon degeneration, it remains unknown how PHR proteins inhibit NMNAT2. Here, we decipher the biochemical basis for how the human PHR protein PAM, also called MYCBP2, forms a noncanonical Skp/Cul-lin/F-box (SCF) complex that contains the F-box protein FBXO45 and SKP1 but lacks CUL1. We show FBXO45 does not simply function in substrate recognition but is important for assembly of the PAM/FBXO45/SKP1 complex. Interestingly, we demonstrate a novel role for SKP1 as an auxiliary component of the target recognition module that enhances binding of FBXO45 to NMNAT2. Finally, we provide biochemical evidence that PAM polyubiquitinates NMNAT2 and regulates NMNAT2 protein stability and degradation by the proteasome.
PBX1 and MEIS1 up-regulate SOX3 gene expression by direct interaction with a consensus binding site within the basal promoter region. Sox3/SOX3 [SRY (sex determining region Y)-box 3] is considered to be one of the earliest neural markers in vertebrates, playing a role in specifying neuronal fate. We have previously reported characterization of the SOX3 promoter and demonstrated that the general transcription factors NF-Y (nuclear factor-Y), Sp1 (specificity protein 1) and USF (upstream stimulatory factor) are involved in transcriptional regulation of SOX3 promoter activity. In the present study we provide the first evidence that the TALE (three-amino-acid loop extension) transcription factors PBX1 (pre-B-cell leukaemia homeobox 1) and MEIS1 (myeloid ecotropic viral integration site 1 homologue) participate in regulating human SOX3 gene expression in NT2/D1 cells by direct interaction with the consensus PBX/MEIS-binding site, which is conserved in all mammalian orthologue promoters analysed. PBX1 is present in the protein complex formed at this site with nuclear proteins from uninduced cells, whereas both PBX1 and MEIS1 proteins were detected in the complex created with extract from RA (retinoic acid)-induced NT2/D1 cells. By functional analysis we also showed that mutations of the PBX1/MEIS1-binding sites resulted in profound reduction of SOX3 promoter responsiveness to RA. Finally, we demonstrated that overexpressed PBX1 and MEIS1 increased endogenous SOX3 protein expression in both uninduced and RAinduced NT2/ D1 cells. With the results of the present study, for the first time, we have established a functional link between the TALE proteins, PBX1 and MEIS1, and expression of the human SOX3 gene. This link is of particular interest since both TALE family members and members of the SOX superfamily are recognized as important developmental regulators.
PHA665752, a small-molecule inhibitor of c-Met, inhibits hepatocyte growth factor-stimulated migration and proliferation of c-Met-positive neuroblastoma cells. Background: c-Met is a tyrosine kinase receptor for hepatocyte growth factor/scatter factor (HGF/SF), and both c-Met and its ligand are expressed in a variety of tissues. C-Met/HGF/SF signaling is essential for normal embryogenesis, organogenesis, and tissue regeneration. Abnormal c-Met/HGF/SF signaling has been demonstrated in different tumors and linked to aggressive and metastatic tumor phenotypes. In vitro and in vivo studies have demonstrated inhibition of c-Met/HGF/SF signaling by the small-molecule inhibitor PHA665752. This study investigated c-Met and HGF expression in two neuroblastoma (NBL) cell lines and tumor tissue from patients with NBL, as well as the effects of PHA665752 on growth and motility of NBL cell lines. The effect of the tumor suppressor protein PTEN on migration and proliferation of tumor cells treated with PHA665752 was also evaluated. Methods: Expression of c-Met and HGF in NBL cell lines SH-EP and SH-SY5Y and primary tumor tissue was assessed by immunohistochemistry and quantitative RT-PCR. The effect of PHA665752 on c-Met/HGF signaling involved in NBL cell proliferation and migration was evaluated in c-Met-positive cells and c-Met-transfected cells. The transwell chemotaxis assay and the MTT assay were used to measure migration and proliferation/cell-survival of tumor cells, respectively. The PPAR-γ agonist rosiglitazone was used to assess the effect of PTEN on PHA665752-induced inhibition of NBL cell proliferation/cell-survival and migration. Results: High c-Met expression was detected in SH-EP cells and primary tumors from patients with advanced-stage disease. C-Met/HGF signaling induced both migration and proliferation of SH-EP cells. Migration and proliferation/cell-survival were inhibited by PHA665752 in a dose-dependent manner. We also found that induced overexpression of PTEN following treatment with rosiglitazone significantly enhanced the inhibitory effect of PHA665752 on NBL-cell migration and proliferation. Conclusion: c-Met is highly expressed in most tumors from patients with advanced-stage, metastatic NBL. Furthermore, using the NBL cell line SH-EP as a model, PHA665752 was shown to inhibit cMet/HGF/SF signaling in vitro, suggesting c-Met inhibitors may have efficacy for blocking local progression and/or metastatic spread of c-Met-positive NBL in vivo. These are novel findings for this disease and suggest that further studies of agents targeting the c-Met/HGF axis in NBL are warranted.
PON1 M/L55 mutation protects high-risk patients against coronary artery disease. The paraoxonase (PON) gene family contains at least three members: PON1, PON2, and PON3. The enzyme PON1 has been implicated in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis. Recently, an association between PON2 and quantitative metabolic phenotypes, such as plasma lipoproteins, plasma glucose, and coronary artery disease (CAD), has been reported. We analyzed two common polymorphisms in PON1 (i.e., M/L55 and R/Q 192 mutations) and PON2 (i.e., G/A148 and C/S311 mutations) in 352 high-risk patients with angiographically defined CAD. These results were compared to those in 380 age- and sex-matched control subjects at high risk for CAD. Polymerase chain reaction with specific primers followed by Hsp92, Alw1, DdeI and Fnu4HI restriction digestion were employed to identify the PON1 M/L55 and R/Q192 and the PON2 G/A148 and C/S311 genotypes, respectively. Univariate analysis showed a higher prevalence of the MM genotype (12% vs. 5%; p = 0.004) for the PON1 M/L55 polymorphism and the GG genotype (21% vs. 15%; p = 0.047) PON2 G/A148 polymorphism in the control subjects. The PON1 M/L55 mutation (MM genotype) was associated with lower triglyceride levels and the PON2 G/A148 mutation (GG genotype), with higher total and low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol levels. No mutation was associated with the number of major coronary artery vessels with a > 50% reduction in lumen diameter. Multiple regression analysis disclosed smoking, a family history of CAD, high-density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol and the PON1 M/L55 mutation [OR = 0.59 (CI95%: 0.42-0.82); p = 0.002] as independent markers for CAD. In contrast to traditional coronary risk factors, the PON1 M/L mutation can be considered predictive of protection against CAD.
PPP6C negatively regulates oncogenic ERK signaling through dephosphorylation of MEK. Flux through the RAF-MEK-ERK protein kinase cascade is shaped by phosphatases acting on the core components of the pathway. Despite being an established drug target and a hub for crosstalk regulation, little is known about dephosphorylation of MEK, the central kinase within the cascade. Here, we identify PPP6C, a phosphatase frequently mutated or downregulated in melanoma, as a major MEK phosphatase in cells exhibiting oncogenic ERK pathway activation. Recruitment of MEK to PPP6C occurs through an interaction with its associated regulatory subunits. Loss of PPP6C causes hyperphosphorylation of MEK at activating and crosstalk phosphorylation sites, promoting signaling through the ERK pathway and decreasing sensitivity to MEK inhibitors. Recurrent melanoma-associated PPP6C mutations cause MEK hyperphosphorylation, suggesting that they promote disease at least in part by activating the core oncogenic pathway driving melanoma. Collectively, our studies identify a key negative regulator of ERK signaling that may influence susceptibility to targeted cancer therapies.
PTEN associates with the vault particles in HeLa cells. PTEN is a tumor suppressor that primarily dephosphorylates phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate to down-regulate the phosphoinositide 3-kinase/Akt signaling pathway. Although the cellular functions of PTEN as a tumor suppressor have been well characterized, the mechanism by which PTEN activity is modulated by other signal molecules in vivo remains poorly understood. In searching for potential PTEN modulators through protein-protein interaction, we identified the major vault protein (MVP) as a dominant PTEN-binding protein in a yeast two-hybrid screen. MVP is the major structural component of vault, the largest intracellular ribonucleoprotein particle. Co-immunoprecipitation confirmed the interaction between PTEN and MVP in transfected mammalian cells. More importantly, we found that a significant portion of endogenous PTEN associates with vault particles in human HeLa cells. Deletion mutation analysis demonstrated that MVP binds to the C2 domain of PTEN and that PTEN interacts with MVP through its EF hand-like motif. Furthermore, the in vitro binding experiments revealed that the interaction of PTEN with MVP is Ca2+-dependent.
PU.1 Is Involved in the Regulation of B Lineage-associated and Developmental Stage-dependent Expression of the Germinal Center-associated DNA Primase GANP. Germinal center-associated DNA primase (GANP) associated with MCM3 of the DNA replication complex is up-regulated selectively in germinal center B cells. We studied promoter activity of the 5′ region involved in the developmental stage-dependent expression in B lineage cells by luciferase reporter assay. Selective regulation of ganp expression was observed in the -737-bp promoter region in B and plasma cell lines but was significantly low in pre-B and T cell lines. The deletion constructs displayed a gap decrease after shortening the region from -134 to -108 bp. Further narrowing suggested the involvement of the PU.1 consensus sequence at -126 bp by electrophoretic mobility shift assay. The protein component PU.1 complex is not inhibited with mutated probes at the consensus site but is inhibited with the known PU.1 probe of CD72 and with anti-PU.1 antibody. Moreover, introduction of PU.1 cDNA enhanced the reporter gene activity in a dose-dependent manner in B cells, whereas the reporter construct with the mutated PU.1 site did not respond. Anti-CD40 stimulation induced the reporter activity with a 100% increase, which is not observed with the PU.1-mutated reporter construct. These results demonstrate that the germinal center-associated DNA primase expression is partly regulated by the transcription factor PU.1 expressed in B lineage cells.
Paradox of sonic hedgehog (SHH) transcriptional regulation: Alternative transcription initiation overrides the effect of downstream promoter DNA methylation. Recently, DNA methylation has been suggested as a potential mechanism involved in the transcriptional regulation of SHH gene expression in cancer. However, detailed analyses on the underlying transcriptional mechanisms of SHH expression have not been presented so far and were therefore the focus of this study. We found that the genomic region of SHH contains two different transcriptional start sites and four CpG islands spread from the 5′ promoter region to the 3′ end of the SHH gene. Based on this CpG island topology we analyzed the influence of DNA methylation within the promoter region as well as in exon 2 and exon 3 on SHH mRNA expression in a large set (n = 14) of benign and malignant human cell lines, and further elucidated the functionality of the two identified SHH transcription initiation sites. Methylation-specific PCR (MSP) clearly showed that SHH is expressed independently of DNA methylation within exon 2 and exon 3 of its genomic region, while methylation of the promoter region is able to abrogate SHH expression. Most interesting, we found activation of the upstream SHH promoter in several breast cancer cell lines when the downstream SHH promoter is methylated. These observations lead us to propose a transcriptional model for the SHH gene, in which combined mechanisms of DNA methylation and alternative promoter usage coordinate the transcriptional activity of this important developmental gene.
Peripheral nerve regeneration is impeded by interleukin‐1 receptor antagonist released from a polymeric guidance channel. Interleukin‐1 receptor antagonist (IL‐lra), a true antagonist of the interleukin‐1 (IL‐1) receptors, is released by activated macrophages and binds specifically to the IL‐1 receptors without triggering IL‐1 effects. Following peripheral nerve axotomy, activated macrophages release IL‐1, which induces the expression of nerve growth factor (NGF) mRNA in Schwann cells. IL‐lra may therefore impede peripheral nerve regeneration by blocking the NGF‐mediated effect of IL‐1. Peripheral nerve regeneration occurring through polymeric guidance channels releasing IL‐lra was investigated in a 4‐mm gap transected mouse sciatic nerve model. Cohorts of five animals were implanted with tubes releasing either bovine serum albumin (BSA), BSA with IL‐lra, or BSA with deactivated IL‐lra (dlL‐lra) for 4 weeks. In vitro release kinetics indicated that after an initial burst, IL‐lra release was linear for the next 3½ weeks. Following implantation of a polymeric guidance channel, a regenerated cable bridged the nerve gap in all animals. The cables were similar in size and were composed of nerve microfascicles containing both unmyelinated and myelinated axons in association with their Schwann cells. Tissue regenerated in tubes releasing BSA‐IL‐lra contained, however, significantly fewer myelinated and unmyelinated axons and blood vessels than did tubes releasing BSA alone or BSA‐dIL‐lra. We conclude that a naturally occurring antagonist of IL‐1 receptors impedes peripheral nerve regeneration, suggesting that macrophages play an essential role in controlling peripheral nerve regeneration through the release of stimulatory and/ or inhibitory molecules.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPARγ) regulates trefoil factor family 2 (TFF2) expression in gastric epithelial cells. Although trefoil factor family 2 (TFF2) plays a critical role in the defense and repair of gastric mucosa, the regulatory mechanism of TFF2 expression is not fully understood. In this study, we investigated the regulation of TFF2 expression by peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPARγ) in gastric epithelial cells. MKN45 gastric cells were used. TFF2 mRNA expression was analyzed by real-time quantitative RT-PCR. The promoter sequence of the human TFF2 gene was cloned into pGL3-basic vector for reporter gene assays. Ciglitazone was mainly used as a specific PPARγ ligand. MKN45 cells expressed functional PPARγ proteins. Endogenous TFF2 mRNA expression and TFF2 reporter gene transcription was significantly up-regulated by ciglitazone in a dose-dependent manner. Reporter gene assays showed that two distinct cis-elements are involved in the response to PAPRγ activation. Within one of these element (nucleotides -558 to -507), we identified a functional peroxisome proliferator responsive element (PPRE) at -522 (5′-GGGACAAAGGGCA-3′). Electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assay confirmed the binding of PPARγ to this sequence. Another element (nucleotides -407 to -358) appeared to be a composite enhancer element indirectly regulated by PPARγ and a combination of these two cis-elements was required for the full response of the human TFF2 gene expression to PPARγ. These data demonstrate that human TFF2 gene is a direct target of PPARγ in gastric epithelial cells. Since TFF2 is a critical gastroprotective agent, PPARγ may be involved in the gastric mucosal defense through regulating TFF2 expression in humans.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-δ upregulates 14-3-3ε in human endothelial cells via CCAAT/enhancer binding protein-β. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor δ (PPARδ) agonists are promising new agents for treatment of the metabolic syndrome. Although they possess antiatherosclerotic properties in vivo and promote endothelial cell survival, their mechanism of action is incompletely understood. 14-3-3ε is a critical component of the endothelial cell antiapoptotic machinery, which is essential to maintain homeostasis of the vascular wall. To test the hypothesis that PPARδ targets 14-3-3ε in endothelial cells, we studied the response of the gene that encodes 14-3-3ε in humans, YWHAE, to PPARδ ligands (L-165,041 and GW501516). We found that PPARδ activates YWHAE promoter in a concentration and time-dependent manner. Consistent with these findings, L-165,041 increased 14-3-3ε mRNA and protein level, whereas PPARδ small interfering RNA suppressed both basal and L-165,041-dependent YWHAE transcription and 14-3-3ε protein expression. Surprisingly, PPAR response elements in YWHAE promoter were not required for upregulation by PPARδ, whereas a CCAAT/enhancer binding protein (C/EBP) site located at -160/-151 bp regulated both basal and PPARδ-dependent promoter activity. Intriguingly, activation or knock down of endogenous PPARδ regulated C/EBPβ protein expression. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays demonstrated that L-165,041 determines the localization of C/EBPβ to the region spanning this C/EBP response element, whereas sequential chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis revealed that C/EBPβ and PPARδ form a transcriptional activating complex on this C/EBP site. Our work uncovers a novel role for C/EBPβ as a mediator of PPARδ-dependent 14-3-3ε gene regulation in human endothelial cells and provides insight into the mechanism by which PPARδ agonists may be beneficial in atherosclerosis.
Pharmacology of transient receptor potential melastatin channels in the vasculature. Mammalian transient receptor potential melastatin (TRPM) non-selective cation channels, the largest TRP subfamily, are widely expressed in excitable and non-excitable cells where they perform diverse functions ranging from detection of cold, taste, osmolarity, redox state and pH to control of Mg 2+ homeostasis and cell proliferation or death. Recently, TRPM gene expression has been identified in vascular smooth muscles with dominance of the TRPM8 channel. There has been in parallel considerable progress in decoding the functional roles of several TRPMs in the vasculature. This research on native cells is aided by the knowledge of the activation mechanisms and pharmacological properties of heterologously expressed TRPM subtypes. This paper summarizes the present state of knowledge of vascular TRPM channels and outlines several anticipated directions of future research in this area.
Phosphatidic acid-mediated mitogenic activation of mTOR signaling. The mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) governs cell growth and proliferation by mediating the mitogen- and nutrient-dependent signal transduction that regulates messenger RNA translation. We identified phosphatidic acid (PA) as a critical component of mTOR signaling. In our study, mitogenic stimulation of mammalian cells led to a phospholipase D-dependent accumulation of cellular PA, which was required for activation of mTOR downstream effectors. PA directly interacted with the domain in mTOR that is targeted by rapamycin, and this interaction was positively correlated with mTOR's ability to activate downstream effectors. The involvement of PA in mTOR signaling reveals an important function of this lipid in signal transduction and protein synthesis, as well as a direct link between mTOR and mitogens. Furthermore, these studies suggest a potential mechanism for the in vivo actions of the immunosuppressant rapamycin.
Pivotal role of serum- and glucocorticoid-inducible kinase 1 in vascular inflammation and atherogenesis. Objective-Atherosclerosis, an inflammatory disease of arterial vessel walls, requires migration and matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-9-dependent invasion of monocytes/macrophages into the vascular wall. MMP-9 expression is stimulated by transcription factor nuclear factor-κB, which is regulated by inhibitor κB (IκB) and thus IκB kinase. Regulators of nuclear factor-κB include serum- and glucocorticoid-inducible kinase 1 (SGK1). The present study explored involvement of SGK1 in vascular inflammation and atherogenesis. Approach and Results-Gene-targeted apolipoprotein E (ApoE)-deficient mice without (apoe-/- sgk1+/+ ) or with (apoe-/- sgk1-/- ) additional SGK1 knockout received 16-week cholesterol-rich diet. According to immunohistochemistry atherosclerotic lesions in aorta and carotid artery, vascular CD45+ leukocyte infiltration, Mac-3+ macrophage infiltration, vascular smooth muscle cell content, MMP-2, and MMP-9 positive areas in atherosclerotic tissue were significantly less in apoe-/- sgk1-/- mice than in apoe-/- sgk1+/+ mice. As determined by Boyden chamber, thioglycollate-induced peritonitis and air pouch model, migration of SGK1-deficient CD11b+ F4/80+ macrophages was significantly diminished in vitro and in vivo. Zymographic MMP-2 and MMP-9 production, MMP-9 activity and invasion through matrigel in vitro were significantly less in sgk1-/- than in sgk1+/+ macrophages and in control plasmid-transfected or inactive K127N SGK1-transfected than in constitutively activeS422D SGK1-transfected THP-1 cells. Confocal microscopy revealed reduced macrophage number and macrophage MMP-9 content in plaques of apoe-/- sgk1-/- mice. In THP-1 cells, MMP-inhibitor GM6001 (25 μmol/L) abrogatedS422D SGK1-induced MMP-9 production and invasion. According to reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction, MMP-9 transcript levels were significantly reduced in sgk1-/- macrophages and strongly upregulated inS422D SGK1-transfected THP-1 cells compared with control plasmid-transfected or K127N SGK1-transfected THP-1 cells. According to immunoblotting and confocal microscopy, phosphorylation of IκB kinase and inhibitor κB and nuclear translocation of p50 were significantly lower in sgk1-/- macrophages than in sgk1+/+ macrophages and significantly higher inS422D SGK1-transfected THP-1 cells than in control plasmid-transfected or K127N SGK1-transfected THP-1 cells. Treatment of S422D SGK1-transfected THP-1 cells with IκB kinase-inhibitor BMS-345541 (10 μmol/L) abolished S422DSGK1-induced increase of MMP-9 transcription and gelatinase activity. Conclusions-SGK1 plays a pivotal role in vascular inflammation during atherogenesis. SGK1 participates in the regulation of monocyte/macrophage migration and MMP-9 transcription via regulation of nuclear factor-κB.
Polycomb recruitment at the Class II transactivator gene. The Class II Transactivator (CIITA) is the master regulator of Major Histocompatibility Class II (MHC II) genes. Transcription of CIITA through the IFN-γ inducible CIITA promoter IV (CIITA pIV) during activation is characterized by a decrease in trimethylation of histone H3 lysine 27 (H3K27me3), catalyzed by the histone methyltransferase Enhancer of Zeste Homolog 2 (EZH2). While EZH2 is the known catalytic subunit of the Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 (PRC2) and is present at the inactive CIITA pIV, the mechanism of PRC2 recruitment to mammalian promoters remains unknown. Here we identify two DNA-binding proteins, which interact with and regulate PRC2 recruitment to CIITA pIV. We demonstrate Yin Yang 1 (YY1) and Jumonji domain containing protein 2 (JARID2) are binding partners along with EZH2 in mammalian cells. Upon IFN-γ stimulation, YY1 dissociates from CIITA pIV while JARID2 binding to CIITA pIV increases, suggesting novel roles for these proteins in regulating expression of CIITA pIV. Knockdown of YY1 and JARID2 yields decreased binding of EZH2 and H3K27me3 at CIITA pIV, suggesting important roles for YY1 and JARID2 at CIITA pIV. JARID2 knockdown also results in significantly elevated levels of CIITA mRNA upon IFN-γ stimulation. This study is the first to identify novel roles of YY1 and JARID2 in the epigenetic regulation of the CIITA pIV by recruitment of PRC2. Our observations indicate the importance of JARID2 in CIITA pIV silencing, and also provide a novel YY1-JARID2-PRC2 regulatory complex as a possible explanation of differential PRC2 recruitment at inducible versus permanently silenced genes.
Polypyrimidine Tract Binding Protein Regulates IRES-Mediated Gene Expression during Apoptosis. During apoptosis there is a substantial reduction in the rate of protein synthesis, and yet some mRNAs avoid this translational inhibition. To determine the impact that receptor-mediated cell death has on the translational efficiency of a large number of mRNAs, translational profiling was performed on MCF7 cells treated with the apoptosis-inducing ligand TRAIL. Our data indicate that approximately 3% of mRNAs remain associated with the polysomes in apoptotic cells, and genes that are involved in transcription, chromatin modification/remodeling, and the Notch signaling pathway are particularly prevalent among the mRNAs that evade translational inhibition. Internal ribosome entry segments (IRESs) were identified in several of the mRNAs that remained associated with the polysomes during apoptosis, and, importantly, these IRESs functioned efficiently in apoptotic cells. Finally, the data showed that polypyrimidine tract binding protein (PTB, a known IRES trans-acting factor or ITAF) is pivotal in regulating the apoptotic process by controlling IRES function.
Positive- and negative-acting signals combine to determine differential RNA replication from the paramyxovirus simian virus 5 genomic and antigenomic promoters. The cis-acting signals found at the 3′ ends of the genomic and antigenomic RNAs are a major factor determining the level of paramyxovirus RNA replication from each promoter. Using a minigenome system that reconstitutes SV5 RNA synthesis from cDNA-derived components, we show here that the genomic promoter (GP) for the paramyxovirus SV5 directs RNA replication ∼14-fold lower than that seen from the antigenomic promoter (AGP). The goal of this study was to identify cis-acting signals responsible for differential levels of RNA replication from the SV5 GP and AGP. We have previously shown that the SV5 AGP contains three sequence-dependent elements (CRI, CRII, and Region III) that are separated by sequence-independent spacer regions. Minigenomes containing chimeric promoters were constructed to test the hypothesis that transfer of discrete cis-acting AGP elements to the GP could confer higher replication properties to the GP. Minigenomes containing a substitution of the AGP CRI, CRII, or Region III elements alone in place of the corresponding GP sequences did not show enhanced levels of RNA replication. However, transfer of both the AGP 3′ terminal CRI and Region III elements into the corresponding sites of the GP led to a minigenome which replicated to ∼40% of the levels seen with the AGP. This enhanced RNA replication from the GP was further increased up to AGP levels by also including the intervening AGP segment (bases 20-50) located between CRI and Region III. Importantly, transfer of nonviral sequences in place of GP bases 20-50 also increased RNA replication to levels approaching that of the AGP, but only in the context of the AGP CRI and Region III substitutions. These data indicate that differential levels of RNA replication from the SV5 GP and AGP are due to a combination of positive-acting signals in the AGP (CRI and Region III) and a negative-acting signal in the GP (bases 20-50). Possible functions for the SV5 promoter elements in determining RNA replication levels are proposed.
Possible association of the TERT promoter polymorphisms rs2735940, rs7712562 and rs2853669 with diabetes mellitus in obese elderly Polish population: results from the national PolSenior study. One of the markers of aging is lymphocyte telomere length (LTL), which is affected by genetic constitution of the organism and environmental conditions, such as development and diseases, including diabetes. The relationship of the later seems to be bilateral. The enzyme responsible for the maintenance of telomere length is a subunit of telomerase—telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT). The aims of the present study were to (1) determine the influence of the TERT promoter sequence SNP variants on relative telomere length (RTL) in an elderly Polish population and (2) explore the potential associations of the SNPs with the type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) in the obese individuals. Two highly homogenous subgroups of PolSenior participants were investigated, the first constituted 70 relatively healthy respondents and the second 70 individuals with T2DM. Telomere length ratio (T/S value) was measured; 1.5 kb part upstream of the transcription start site of the TERT promoter was sequenced, and the frequencies of polymorphisms were calculated and compared against analysed data. Low-frequency SNPs were evaluated but excluded from further comparative analyses to RTL and glucose metabolism markers. No significant difference in telomere length was found between the two studied subgroups. Univariate statistical analyses showed only a weak association of environmental or genetic factors altering this marker of aging. Approximate frequency of four SNPs in TERT promoter sequence was assessed in Polish population aged 65–95 years, but three of them (rs2735940, rs7712562 and rs2853669) were selected for further analyses. The SNP selection was based on their minor allele frequencies in general population and on published data. The univariate analysis has revealed that carriers of CC SNP (rs2853669) have had the shortest RTL in the T2DM group. Multivariate analysis has also revealed that the genetic effect of TERT promoter CC SNP was strengthened by the incidence of T2DM. The additional variation in RTL in paired groups indicates that in addition to T2DM and genetics, there are other factors contributing to development of the age-related diseases.
Post-transcriptional regulation of cytokine expression and signaling. Cytokines and cytokine signaling pathways are crucial for regulating cellular functions, including cell growth, proliferation, differentiation, and cell death. Cytokines regulate physiological processes such as immune responses and maintain immune homeostasis, and they also mediate pathological conditions such as autoimmune diseases and cancer. Hence, the precise control of the expression of cytokines and the transduction of cytokine signals is tightly regulated at transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels. In particular, post-transcriptional regulation at the level of mRNA stability is critical for coordinating cytokine expression and cytokine signaling. Numerous cytokine transcripts contain AU-rich elements (AREs), whereas transcripts encoding numerous components of cytokine signaling pathways contain GU-rich elements (GREs). AREs and GREs are mRNA decay elements that mediate rapid mRNA degradation. Through ARE-and GRE-mediated decay mechanisms, immune cells selectively and specifically regulate cytokine networks during immune responses. Aberrant expression and stability of ARE-or GRE-containing transcripts that encode cytokines or components of cytokine signaling pathways are observed in disease states, including cancer. In this review, we focus on the role of AREs and GREs in regulating cytokine expression and signal transduction at the level of mRNA stability.
Post-translational regulation of the cellular levels of DAPK. Death associated protein kinase (DAPK) is a large, multi-domain ser/thr kinase whose activities converge upon multiple signaling pathways that regulate autophagy, caspase-dependent cell death, cell adhesion and migration. The cellular levels of DAPK are post-translationally regulated by the combined activities of two degradation systems, including the ubiquitin proteasome and an extra-lysosomal proteolysis pathway. At least three distinct E3 ubiquitin ligases target DAPK, including mindbomb1, the chaperone dependent ligase, CHIP (carboxy terminus of Hsp70-interacting protein) and a cullin RING ligase complex, KLHL20-Cul3-RBX1. In addition, it appears that the cellular levels of DAPK are also regulated by an extra-lysosomal protease, cathepsin B. While protein quality control and recycling clearly benefit cells by removal of misfolded or toxic proteins and recycling of their components, the finding that multiple surveillance systems target DAPK suggests that these protein degradation systems also act to fine tune DAPK expression levels in response to specific signaling pathways.
Postmitotic differentiation of human monocytes requires cohesin-structured chromatin. Cohesin is a major structural component of mammalian genomes and is required to maintain loop structures. While acute depletion in short-term culture models suggests a limited importance of cohesin for steady-state transcriptional circuits, long-term studies are hampered by essential functions of cohesin during replication. Here, we study genome architecture in a postmitotic differentiation setting, the differentiation of human blood monocytes (MO). We profile and compare epigenetic, transcriptome and 3D conformation landscapes during MO differentiation (either into dendritic cells or macrophages) across the genome and detect numerous architectural changes, ranging from higher level compartments down to chromatin loops. Changes in loop structures correlate with cohesin-binding, as well as epigenetic and transcriptional changes during differentiation. Functional studies show that the siRNA-mediated depletion of cohesin (and to a lesser extent also CTCF) markedly disturbs loop structures and dysregulates genes and enhancers that are primarily regulated during normal MO differentiation. In addition, gene activation programs in cohesin-depleted MO-derived macrophages are disturbed. Our findings implicate an essential function of cohesin in controlling long-term, differentiation- and activation-associated gene expression programs.
Potential role of ZEB1 as a DNA repair regulator in colorectal cancer cells revealed by cancer-Associated promoter profiling. Besides being a key contributor to epithelial-To-mesenchymal transition (EMT) activation and stemness maintenance, zinc finger E-box binding homeobox 1 (ZEB1) is also a crucial inducer of chemoresistance and radioresistance. Unlike the clear mechanism that mediates its effect on EMT and dedifferentiation, the mechanism of how ZEB1 promotes chemo-And radio-resistance remains to be elucidated. It has been previously reported that ZEB1 promotes DNA double-strand break clearance by enhancing the deubiquitylating activity of ubiquitin- specific peptidase (USP)7 on checkpoint kinase 1, which is an important step during DNA repair. It was hypothesized that as a transcriptional suppressor, ZEB1 may be involved in an unbalanced DNA damage response (DDR) by affecting other key components. Therefore, in the present study, the target gene occupancy of ZEB1 was mapped in colorectal cancer cells using the ChIP-on-chip method, revealing positive intervals enriched along the three DDR-Associated genes: USP17, chromodomain helicase DNA-binding protein 1-like and double homeobox 4. The E-boxes identified in the binding regions and the enhanced mRNA expression of the three genes following the knockdown of ZEB1 supported the identification of these three genes as downstream target genes of ZEB1. Furthermore, ZEB1 knockdown initiated a chemosensitization effect, induced G1/S arrest and increased apoptosis, which functionally validated the three ZEB1 downstream targets. In summary, the present study identified three DDR-Associated genes as ZEB1 downstream targets, and demonstrated that their suppression by ZEB1 contributes to ZEB1-mediated chemoresistance.
Priming TLR3 and TLR4 in human adipose- and olfactory mucosa-derived mesenchymal stromal cells and comparison of their cytokine secretions. Mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) have potent immunomodulatory abilities to regulate most of the immune cells. Not only the tissue origin of MSCs can affect their functions, but also their microenvironment can strongly influence their biology, particularly through toll-like receptors (TLR)/ligands interaction. In the present study, we compared MSCs derived from two different sources, i.e. human olfactory ecto-mesenchymal stem cells (OE-MSCs) and adipose tissue (AT-MSCs), in terms of their immunosuppressive effects before and after TLR3 and TLR4 stimulation through low-level and short-term TLR-priming protocol. After isolation and characterization of OE-MSCs and AT-MSCs, flow cytometry analyses were used to assess the expression of TLR3, TLR4 by MSCs. Secretion and expression levels of immune-related genes were analyzed using ELISA and RT-qPCR techniques. Based on the results, the proliferation potential of OE-MSCs was significantly higher than that of AT-MSCs. The gene expression and also protein levels of both TLR3 and TLR4 were significantly higher in OE-MSCs, compared to AT-MSCs. Among the examined cytokines and chemokines, OE-MSCs exhibited significantly higher levels of CCL5, IL-8, and TGF-β production, in comparison with AT-MSCs. However, IL-6 secretion by AT-MSCs was considerably more than that by OE-MSCs. OE-MSCs were only affected by the TLR4 ligand, and IL-8 and IL-6 production levels increased after LPS treatment. However, only IL-8 significantly increased after adding LPS or Poly (I:C) to the AT-MSC media. According to the obtained data, OE-MSCs exhibited a higher proliferative potential and greater expression levels of TLR3 and TLR4 genes, compared to AT-MSCs. However, unlike AT-MSCs, the expression of TLR3 by OE-MSCs was nonfunctional. Finally, based on our findings, OE-MSCs have a stronger secretion of immunosuppressive cytokines both before and after LPS or PIC treatment, compared to AT-MSCs.
Profiling genomic copy number changes in retinoblastoma beyond loss of RB1. Loss of both RB1 alleles is rate limiting for development of retinoblastoma (RB), but genomic copy number gain or loss may impact oncogene(s) and tumor suppressor genes, facilitating tumor progression. We used quantitative multiplex polymerase chain reaction to profile "hot spot" genomic copy number changes for gain at 1q32.1, 6p22, and MYCN, and loss at 16q22 in 87 primary RB and 7 cell lines. Loss at 16q22 (48%) negatively associated with MYCN gain (18%) (Fisher's exact P = 0.031 ), gain at 1q32.1 (62%) positively associated with 6p "hot spot" gain (43%) (P = 0.033), and there was a trend for positive association between 1q and MYCN gain (P = 0.095). Cell lines had a higher frequency of MYCN amplification than primary tumors (29% versus 3%; P = 0.043). Novel high-level amplification of 1q32.1 in one primary tumor, confirmed by fluorescence in situ hybridization, strongly supports the presence of oncogene(s) in this region, possibly the mitotic kinesin, KIF14. Gene-specific quantitative multiplex polymerase chain reaction of candidate oncogenes at 1q32.1 (KIF14), 6p22 (E2F3 and DEK), and tumor suppressor genes at 16q22 (CDH11) and 17q21 (NGFR) showed the most common gene gains in RB to be KIF14 in cell lines (80%) and E2F3 in primary tumors (70%). The patterns of gain/loss were qualitatively different in 25 RB compared with 12 primary hepatocellular carcinoma and 12 breast cancer cell lines. Gene specific analysis of one bone marrow metastasis of RB, prechemotherapy and postchemotherapy, showed the typical genomic changes of RB pretreatment, which normalized after chemotherapy.
Profiling of differential gene expression in activated, allergen-specific human Th2 cells. Th2 cells play a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of allergic diseases, including asthma, but the molecular basis of the Th1/Th2 dichotomy and the precise molecular pathways leading to Th2-dominant immune responses are still unclear. To this end, we have combined suppression subtractive hybridization (SSH) and high throughput analysis of cDNA arrays spotted with IMAGE clones to determine the profile of differential gene expression in human allergen-specific Th2 cells. Allergen-stimulated Th2 cells were used as the tester, and either resting Th2 cells or stimulated Th1 cells were used as the driver. SSH was used to equalize different mRNA levels and remove common sequences between the tester and the driver. Comparison of cDNA arrays probed with subtracted tester and non-subtracted driver provided a profile of Th2-selective gene expression. Analysis of 77 sequence-confirmed and differentially expressed genes in Th2 cells showed predominant EST sequences, representing 80% of sequences analyzed. The pattern of gene expression in 19 selected sequences was further analyzed in additional Th1 and Th2 clones. A total of 15 sequences showed predominant expression in Th2 cells, while the remaining four EST sequences showed no detectable amplification signal. The database containing Th2-selective genes will further our understanding of Th2 cell function and the genetic basis of allergic diseases.
Programmable Synthetic Upstream Activating Sequence Library for Fine-Tuning Gene Expression Levels in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. A wide dynamic range of promoters is necessary for fine-tuning transcription levels. However, weak intensity and narrow dynamic range limit transcriptional regulation via constitutive promoters. The upstream activation sequence (UAS) located upstream of the core promoter is a crucial region that could obviously enhance promoter strength. Herein, we created a random mutagenesis library consisting of 330 different variants based on the UAS of the TDH3 promoter with an ?37-fold dynamic range by error-prone polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and obtained strong intensity mutant UAS, which was ?12-fold greater than the wild-type UASTDH3. Analysis of the mutant library revealed 15 strength-enhancing sites and their corresponding bases of the UASTDH3 regions, which provided the impetus for a synthetic library. The resulting 32?»768 mutant UAS library was constructed by permutation and combination of the bases of the 15 enhancing sites. To characterize the library, a strength prediction model was built by correlating DNA structural features and UAS strength, which provided a model between UAS sequence and intensity. Following characterization, the UAS library was applied to precisely regulate gene expression in the production of β-carotene, proving that the UAS library would be a useful tool for gene tuning in metabolic engineering. In summary, we designed, constructed, and characterized a UAS library that facilitated precise tuning of transcription levels of target proteins.
Proliferation and regeneration effects of constructed human β-nerve growth factor gene on transfected cat corneal endothelial cells in vitro. Objective: To explore the mechanisms of proliferation and regeneration effects of a human nerve growth factor (β-NGF) expression vector ( pcDNA4-ß-NGF) on the transfected cat corneal endothelial cells in vitro. To provide a new method for long term cultivation of human corneal endothelial cells in vitro and to establish theoretical basis of gene therapy for corneal endothelial defects. Methods: It was a experimental study. The human pcDNA4-ß-NGF expression vector was constructed and transfected into cultured cat corneal endothelial cells by Effectene™ lipofectine transfection technique. The expression of the reporter gene pcDNA4-ß-LacZ expression was used to determine the transfection efficiency 48 hours after the transfection. RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry techniques were used to check the transient expression status at mRNA and protein levels in cat corneal endothelial cells. Mitotic index and methyl thiazolyl tetrazoliurn (MTT) value were measured and cell numbers at different stages of cell cycles were determined by flow cytometer 96 hours after transfection. An in vitro quantitative cat corneal endothelial cell traumatic model was established which was used for observing the effect of human β-NGF expression product on the DNA synthesis of cat endothelial cells and healing process of traumatized endothelial cells. Results: A human nerve growth factor (β-NGF) expression vector ( pcDNA4-ß-NGF) was successfully constructed and confirmed by sequence analysis. Single layered pure cat corneal endothelial cells were obtained by a modified sliced tissue culture technique and confirmed by morphological analysis, neurone specific enolase immunohistochemistry study and transmission electronic microscope. Effectene™ lipofectine mediated transfection efficiency of pcDNA4-ß-NGF into cat corneal endothelial cells in vitro was 11.3%. The human β-NGF could be highly expressed in the transfected corneal endothelial cells at mRNA and protein levels. Mitotic index, MTT value and G1 stage cell numbers, as well as traumatically defected endothelial cells numbers during the healing process of human β-NGF transfected corneal endothelial cells were statistically differed from the pre-transfected cells and control groups. Conclusions: Effectene™ lipofectine transfection technique could be effectively used for transfecting pcDNA4-ß-NGF into cat corneal endothelial cells in vitro with good efficacy and the gene could stably express to improve the proliferation and regeneration of the cat corneal endothelial cells. This method could be managed as an experimental basis to be applied in the experimental study for transfecting the human β-NGF gene into human corneal endothelial cells. Therefore a new method for resolving the problem of impossible regeneration of corneal endothelial cells could become possible.
Promising noninvasive cellular phenotype in prostate cancer cells knockdown of matrix metalloproteinase 9. Cell surface interaction of CD44 and MMP9 increases migration and invasion of PC3 cells. We show here that stable knockdown of MMP9 in PC3 cells switches CD44 isoform expression from CD44s to CD44v6 which is more glycosylated. These cells showed highly adhesive morphology with extensive cell spreading which is due to the formation of focal adhesions and well organized actin-stress fibers. MMP9 knockdown blocks invadopodia formation and matrix degradation activity as well. However, CD44 knockdown PC3 cells failed to develop focal adhesions and stress fibers; hence these cells make unstable adhesions. A part of the reason for these changes could be caused by silencing of CD44v6 as well. Immunostaining of prostate tissue microarray sections illustrated significantly lower levels of CD44v6 in adenocarcinoma than normal tissue. Our results suggest that interaction between CD44 and MMP9 is a potential mechanism of invadopodia formation. CD44v6 expression may be essential for the protection of non-invasive cellular phenotype. CD44v6 decrease may be a potential marker for prognosis and therapeutics.
Promoter hypermethylation as a mechanism for Lamin A/C silencing in a subset of neuroblastoma cells. Nuclear lamins support the nuclear envelope and provide anchorage sites for chromatin. They are involved in DNA synthesis, transcription, and replication. It has previously been reported that the lack of Lamin A/C expression in lymphoma and leukaemia is due to CpG island promoter hypermethylation. Here, we provide evidence that Lamin A/C is silenced via this mechanism in a subset of neuroblastoma cells. Moreover, Lamin A/C expression can be restored with a demethylating agent. Importantly, Lamin A/C reintroduction reduced cell growth kinetics and impaired migration, invasion, and anchorage-independent cell growth. Cytoskeletal restructuring was also induced. In addition, the introduction of lamin Δ50, known as Progerin, caused senescence in these neuroblastoma cells. These cells were stiffer and developed a cytoskeletal structure that differed from that observed upon Lamin A/C introduction. Of relevance, short hairpin RNA Lamin A/C depletion in unmethylated neuroblastoma cells enhanced the aforementioned tumour properties. A cytoskeletal structure similar to that observed in methylated cells was induced. Furthermore, atomic force microscopy revealed that Lamin A/C knockdown decreased cellular stiffness in the lamellar region. Finally, the bioinformatic analysis of a set of methylation arrays of neuroblastoma primary tumours showed that a group of patients (around 3%) gives a methylation signal in some of the CpG sites located within the Lamin A/C promoter region analysed by bisulphite sequencing PCR. These findings highlight the importance of Lamin A/C epigenetic inactivation for a subset of neuroblastomas, leading to enhanced tumour properties and cytoskeletal changes. Additionally, these findings may have treatment implications because tumour cells lacking Lamin A/C exhibit more aggressive behaviour.
Promoter hypomethylation of TIMP3 is associated with pre-eclampsia in a Chinese population. A study by Yuen RK, Penaherrera MS, von Dadelszen P, McFadden DE, Robinson WP. DNA methylation profiling of human placentas reveals promoter hypomethylation of multiple genes in early-onset preeclampsia. Eur J Hum Genet 2010;18:1006-1012 based on a Canadian population found the tissue inhibitor of the metalloproteinase 3 (TIMP3) gene to be hypomethylated in pre-eclampsia (PE) placentas and to be a potential prenatal marker for early onset PE. To further explore the role of TIMP3 in PE and to investigate whether the TIMP3 promoter shows the same methylation pattern in the Han Chinese population, we analyzed a complete methylation assay of TIMP3 including the promoter region studied in the Canadian report and the neighboring CpG island in placentas (cases n = 41, controls n = 22) maternal peripheral blood (cases n = 3; controls n = 6) and umbilical cord blood (cases n = 7; controls n = 8) using MassArray EpiTyper (Sequenom, San Diego, CA, USA). Our results confirmed the finding of aberrant TIMP3 promoter methylation in PE placentas (mean = 0.405) compared with those in controls (mean = 0.534, P = 9.40 × 10-7). A tissue-specific methylation pattern between placentas (mean = 0.459) and bloods (mean = 0.961, P = 6.91 × 10-13) was also demonstrated in our clinical samples. Furthermore, a nearly 2-fold increase in TIMP3 expression for the hypomethylated promoter was found in PE placentas (P = 0.007), pointing to a negative relationship between TIMP3 methylation and the expression (R = 20.758, P = 0.029). In conclusion, we replicated the findings of Yuen  in our Han Chinese-based study, confirming that TIMP3 is likely to be involved in the etiology of PE and that hypomethylated and placenta-specific TIMP3 may be a potential marker for early diagnosis of PE in maternal plasma.
Promoter methylation reduces C/EBPδ (CEBPD) gene expression in the SUM-52PE human breast cancer cell line and in primary breast tumors. CCAAT/Enhancer Binding Proteins (C/EBPs) are a highly conserved family of leucine zipper proteins that regulate cell growth and differentiation. C/EBPδ functions in the initiation and maintenance of mammary epithelial cell G0 growth arrest and 'loss of function' alterations in C/EBPδ gene expression have been reported in human breast cancer and in rodent carcinogen-induced mammary tumors. The molecular mechanism underlying reduced C/EBPδ gene expression in mammary tumorigenesis, however, is unknown. In this report we demonstrate that C/EBPδ gene expression is undetectable in the SUM-52PE human breast cancer cell line and that silencing of SUM-52PE C/EBPδ gene expression is due to epigenetic promoter hypermethylation (26/27 CpGs methylated). The hypermethylated SUM-52PE C/EBPδ gene promoter is associated with reduced levels of acetylated Histone H4, consistent with a closed, transcriptionally inactive chromatin conformation. Treatment with 5′-aza-cytidine and trichostatin A (TSA) re-activates cytokine-induced SUM-52PE C/EBPδ gene expression. C/EBPδ gene expression is reduced to virtually undetectable levels in 32% (18/57) of primary human breast tumors. Site-specific CpG methylation was observed in 33% (6/18) of the low C/EBPδ expressing primary breast tumors. CpG methylation adjacent to the C/EBPδ proximal promoter Sp1 site was associated with reduced C/EBPδ expression in a primary breast cancer sample. Electromobility shift assays (EMSA) demonstrated a significant reduction in binding to oligos containing the CpG methylation 5′ to the Sp1 binding site. These results demonstrate a direct link between C/EBPδ gene promoter hyper- and site specific-methylation and reduced C/EBPδ gene expression in breast cancer cell lines and primary breast tumors.
Protection of human islets from the effects of interleukin-1β by adenoviral gene transfer of an IκB repressor. Interleukin-1β (IL-1β) is a pro-inflammatory cytokine that inhibits β cell function and promotes Fas-triggered apoptosis. IL-1β is thought to act early in the initiation of the autoimmune destruction of pancreatic β cells in type I diabetes. IL-1β promotes β cell impairment, in part, by activating NF-κB transcription factor-dependent signaling pathways. We have examined whether cells could be protected from the effects of IL-1β by overexpressing an inhibitor of NF-κB activity, IκB, by adenoviral gene transfer to intact human islets in culture. Infection of islets with an adenoviral vector encoding a non-phosphorylatable, non-degradable variant of IκBα resulted in normal insulin responses to glucose in the presence of IL-1β. Furthermore, nitric oxide production was prevented and, more importantly, Fas-triggered apoptosis was inhibited following IκBα gene transfer. These results suggest that blocking the NF-κB pathway might prevent cytokine-induced β cell impairment as a means of facilitating islet transplantation.
Protective effect of inhibiting TRPM7 expression on hypoxia post-treatment H9C2 cardiomyocytes. BACKGROUND: Transient receptor potential channel 7 (TRPM7) plays an important role in maintaining intracellular ion concentration and osmotic pressure. OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to investigate the role and mechanism of inhibiting the expression of TRPM7 in the treatment of distal myocardial ischemia. METHODS: H9C2 cells were treated with hypoxia post-treatment and reperfusion, respectively, detect the expression of HIF-1α and TRPM7, the concentration of Ca2+ and the degree of apoptosis in the H9C2 cells. The relevant miRNAs targeting TRPM7 were searched, the TRPM7 interference vectors were constructed, and the interference of different interference vectors on TRPM7 in H9C2 cells was detected. RESULTS: The results showed that hypoxia post-treatment treatment would lead to increased expression of miR-22-3p which directly targeting TRPM7, decreased expression of TRPM7, increased expression of HIF-α and increased intracellular Ca2+ concentration. While reperfusion can increase the expression of HIF-1α and TRPM7 in H9C2 cells and increase the degree of apoptosis. CONCLUSION: Knockdown of TRPM7 can significantly reduce reperfusion injury in H9C2 cells, reduce the degree of apoptosis, and the TRPM7 interference vector can inhibit the expression of TRPM7 and have a certain protective effect on the reperfusion injury of H9C2 cells.
Protein-Protein Interaction of Retinoic Acid Receptor α and Thyroid Transcription Factor-1 in Respiratory Epithelial Cells. Surfactant protein B (SP-B) is a 79-amino acid peptide critical to postnatal respiratory adaptation and is developmentally regulated. Previous studies demonstrated that retinoic acid receptors (RARs) and thyroid transcription factor 1 (TTF-1) stimulated SP-B gene expression in respiratory epithelial cells. Clustered retinoic acid-responsive element and TTF-1 binding sites were identified in the enhancer region of the SP-B gene and were required for retinoic acid stimulation of the human SP-B (hSP-B) promoter. In addition, RAR and TTF-1 were colocalized in mouse bronchiolar and alveolar type II epithelial cells, the cellular site of SP-B synthesis. In the present studies, RAR and TTF-1 were colocalized in the nucleus of H441 cells. RAR and TTF-1 synergistically stimulated the hSP-B promoter in H441 cells. Direct protein-protein interactions between RAR and TTF-1 were demonstrated by the glutathione S-transferase pull-down assay and the mammalian cell two hybrid assay. Truncation/deletion studies showed that the RAR-TTF-1 interaction was mediated through the RAR DNA binding domain (DBD) and the TTF-1 homeodomain. RAR DBD greatly enhanced TTF-1 homeodomain DNA binding activity to a hSP-B enhancer oligonucleotide, in which retinoic acid-responsive element and TTF-1 DNA binding sites overlap. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assay demonstrated that retinoic acid treatment of H441 cells greatly stimulated both RAR and TTF-1 DNA binding to the hSP-B enhancer region in H441 cells. These findings support a model in which RAR/retinoid X receptor, TTF-1, and coactivators (p160 members and CBP) form an enhanceosome in the enhancer region of the hSP-B gene.
Proximity among distant regulatory elements at the β-globin locus requires GATA-1 and FOG-1. Recent evidence suggests that long-range enhancers and gene promoters are in close proximity, which might reflect the formation of chromatin loops. Here, we examined the mechanism for DNA looping at the β-globin locus. By using chromosome conformation capture (3C), we show that the hematopoietic transcription factor GATA-1 and its cofactor FOG-1 are required for the physical interaction between the β-globin locus control region (LCR) and the β-major globin promoter. Kinetic studies reveal that GATA-1-induced loop formation correlates with the onset of β-globin transcription and occurs independently of new protein synthesis. GATA-1 occupies the β-major globin promoter normally in fetal liver erythroblasts from mice lacking the LCR, suggesting that GATA-1 binding to the promoter and LCR are independent events that occur prior to loop formation. Together, these data demonstrate that GATA-1 and FOG-1 are essential anchors for a tissue-specific chromatin loop, providing general insights into long-range enhancer function.
Purkinje cell protein 4 expression is associated with DNA methylation status in aldosterone-producing adenoma. Context: Aldosterone production is stimulated by activation of calcium signaling in aldosteroneproducing adenomas (APAs), and epigenetic factors such as DNA methylation may be associated with the expression of genes involved in aldosterone regulation. Objective: Our aim was to investigate the DNA methylation of genes related to calcium signaling cascades in APAs and the association ofmutations in genes linked to APAs withDNAmethylation levels. Methods: Nonfunctioning adrenocortical adenoma (n = 12) and APA (n = 35) samples were analyzed. The KCNJ5 T158A mutation was introduced into human adrenocortical cell lines (HAC15 cells) using lentiviral delivery. DNA methylation array analysis was conducted using adrenal tumor samples and HAC15 cells. Results: The Purkinje cell protein 4 (PCP4) gene was one of the most hypomethylated in APAs. DNA methylation levels in two sites of PCP4 showed a significant inverse correlation with messenger RNA expression in adrenal tumors. Bioinformatics and multiple regression analysis revealed that CCAAT/ enhancer binding protein alpha (CEBPA) may bind to the methylation site of the PCP4 promoter. According to chromatin immunoprecipitation assay, CEBPA was bound to the PCP4 hypomethylated region by chromatin immunoprecipitation assay. There were no significant differences in PCP4 methylation levels among APA genotypes. Moreover, KCNJ5 T158A did not influence PCP4 methylation levels in HAC15 cells. Conclusions: We showed that the PCP4 promoter was one of the most hypomethylated in APAs and that PCP4 transcription may be associated with demethylation as well as with CEBPA in APAs. KCNJ5 mutations known to result in aldosterone overproduction were not related to PCP4 methylation in either clinical or in vitro studies.
Quantification of the effect of site-specific histone acetylation on chromatin transcription rate. Eukaryotic transcription is epigenetically regulated by chromatin structure and post-translational modifications (PTMs). For example, lysine acetylation in histone H4 is correlated with activation of RNA polymerase I-, II- and III-driven transcription from chromatin templates, which requires prior chromatin remodeling. However, quantitative understanding of the contribution of particular PTM states to the sequential steps of eukaryotic transcription has been hampered partially because reconstitution of a chromatin template with designed PTMs is difficult. In this study, we reconstituted a di-nucleosome with site-specifically acetylated or unmodified histone H4, which contained two copies of the Xenopus somatic 5S rRNA gene with addition of a unique sequence detectable by hybridization-assisted fluorescence correlation spectroscopy. Using a Xenopus oocyte nuclear extract, we analyzed the time course of accumulation of nascent 5S rRNA-derived transcripts generated on chromatin templates in vitro. Our mathematically described kinetic model and fitting analysis revealed that tetra-acetylation of histone H4 at K5/K8/K12/K16 increases the rate of transcriptionally competent chromatin formation ∼3-fold in comparison with the absence of acetylation. We provide a kinetic model for quantitative evaluation of the contribution of epigenetic modifications to chromatin transcription.
Quantitative polymerase chain reaction analysis of cytotoxic cell proteinase gene transcripts in T cells. Pattern of expression is dependent on the nature of the stimulus. A quantitative polymerase chain reaction assay was developed that allowed us to monitor transcript levels corresponding to individual members of the cytotoxic cell proteinase (CCP) gene family during T cell activation. Selective expression was observed and shown to depend upon the mode of T cell antigen receptor stimulation. Mitogen or allogeneic stimulation of cells resulted in the appearance of transcripts corresponding to all the genes measured, whereas αCD3 antibody produced a response restricted to just two family members. This differential gene activation represents a heterogeneity in cytotoxic T lymphocytes that has not been recognized previously. It may indicate that the T cell branch of the immune system can distinguish between different forms of stimulation and respond by synthesizing a specific set of effector and ancillary molecules that is most appropriate for lysis of cells bearing that type of antigen. Only CCP1 transcripts correlated with cytotoxicity for all modes of stimulation. The patterns for the others are suggestive of distinct and ancillary, rather than direct effector, roles in the lytic mechanism.
Quantitative proteomics reveals regulation of karyopherin subunit alpha-2 (KPNA2) and its potential novel cargo proteins in nonsmall cell lung cancer. The process of nucleocytoplasmic shuttling is mediated by karyopherins. Dysregulated expression of karyopherins may trigger oncogenesis through aberrant distribution of cargo proteins. Karyopherin subunit alpha-2 (KPNA2) was previously identified as a potential biomarker for nonsmall cell lung cancer by integration of the cancer cell secretome and tissue transcriptome data sets. Knockdown of KPNA2 suppressed the proliferation and migration abilities of lung cancer cells. However, the precise molecular mechanisms underlying KPNA2 activity in cancer remain to be established. In the current study, we applied gene knockdown, subcellular fractionation, and stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culturebased quantitative proteomic strategies to systematically analyze the KPNA2-regulating protein profiles in an adenocarcinoma cell line. Interaction network analysis revealed that several KPNA2-regulating proteins are involved in the cell cycle, DNA metabolic process, cellular component movements and cell migration. Importantly, E2F1 was identified as a potential novel cargo of KPNA2 in the nuclear proteome. The mRNA levels of potential effectors of E2F1 measured using quantitative PCR indicated that E2F1 is one of the "master molecule" responses to KPNA2 knockdown. Immunofluorescence staining and immunoprecipitation assays disclosed colocalization and association between E2F1 and KPNA2. An in vitro protein binding assay further demonstrated that E2F1 interacts directly with KPNA2. Moreover, knockdown of KPNA2 led to subcellular redistribution of E2F1 in lung cancer cells. Our results collectively demonstrate the utility of quantitative proteomic approaches and provide a fundamental platform to further explore the biological roles of KPNA2 in nonsmall cell lung cancer.
Quantitative trait loci for baseline erythroid traits. A substantial genetic contribution underlies variation in baseline peripheral blood counts. We performed quantitative trait locus/loci (QTL) analyses to identify chromosome (Chr) regions harboring genes influencing the baseline erythroid parameters in F2 intercrosses between NZW/LacJ, SM/J, and C57BLKS/J inbred mice. We identified multiple significant QTL for red blood cell (RBC) count, hemoglobin (Hgb) and hematocrit (Hct) levels, mean corpuscular volume (MCV), mean corpuscular hemoglobin (MCH), and mean cell hemoglobin concentration (CHCM). We identified four RBC count QTL: Rbcq1 (Chr 1, peak LOD score at 62 cM,), Rbcq2 (Chr 4, 60 cM), Rbcq3 (Chr 11, 34 cM), and Rbcq4 (Chr 10, 60 cM). Three MCV QTL were identified: Mcvq1 (Chr 7, 30 cM), Mvcq2 (Chr 11, 6 cM), and Mcvq3 (Chr 10, 60 cM). Single significant loci for Hgb (Hgbq1, Chr 16, 32 cM), Hct (Hctq1, Chr 3, 42 cM), and MCH (Mchq1, Chr 10, 60 cM) were identified. The data support the existence of a common RBC/MCH/MCV locus on Chr 10. Two QTL for CHCM (Chcmq1, Chr 2, 48 cM; Chcmq2, Chr 9, 44 cM) and an interaction between Chcmq2 with a locus on Chr 19 were identified. These analyses emphasize the genetic complexity underlying the regulation of erythroid peripheral blood traits in normal populations and suggest that genes not previously recognized as significantly impacting normal erythropoiesis exist.
RAD52 Facilitates Mitotic DNA Synthesis Following Replication Stress. Homologous recombination (HR) is necessary to counteract DNA replication stress. Common fragile site (CFS) loci are particularly sensitive to replication stress and undergo pathological rearrangements in tumors. At these loci, replication stress frequently activates DNA repair synthesis in mitosis. This mitotic DNA synthesis, termed MiDAS, requires the MUS81-EME1 endonuclease and a non-catalytic subunit of the Pol-delta complex, POLD3. Here, we examine the contribution of HR factors in promoting MiDAS in human cells. We report that RAD51 and BRCA2 are dispensable for MiDAS but are required to counteract replication stress at CFS loci during S-phase. In contrast, MiDAS is RAD52 dependent, and RAD52 is required for the timely recruitment of MUS81 and POLD3 to CFSs in early mitosis. Our results provide further mechanistic insight into MiDAS and define a specific function for human RAD52. Furthermore, selective inhibition of MiDAS may comprise a potential therapeutic strategy to sensitize cancer cells undergoing replicative stress.
RASSF1A is required for the maintenance of nuclear actin levels. Nuclear actin participates in many essential cellular processes including gene transcription, chromatin remodelling and mRNA processing. Actin shuttles into and out the nucleus through the action of dedicated transport receptors importin-9 and exportin-6, but how this transport is regulated remains unclear. Here, we show that RASSF1A is a novel regulator of actin nucleocytoplasmic trafficking and is required for the active maintenance of nuclear actin levels through supporting binding of exportin-6 (XPO6) to RAN GTPase. RASSF1A (Ras association domain family 1 isoform A) is a tumour suppressor gene frequently silenced by promoter hypermethylation in all major solid cancers. Specifically, we demonstrate that endogenous RASSF1A localises to the nuclear envelope (NE) and is required for nucleocytoplasmic actin transport and the concomitant regulation of myocardin-related transcription factor A (MRTF-A), a co-activator of the transcription factor serum response factor (SRF). The RASSF1A/RAN/XPO6/nuclear actin pathway is aberrant in cancer cells where RASSF1A expression is lost and correlates with reduced MRTF-A/SRF activity leading to cell adhesion defects. Taken together, we have identified a previously unknown mechanism by which the nuclear actin pool is regulated and uncovered a previously unknown link of RASSF1A and MRTF-A/SRF in tumour suppression.
RBM25 is a global splicing factor promoting inclusion of alternatively spliced exons and is itself regulated by lysine mono-methylation. In eukaryotes, precursor mRNA (pre-mRNA) splicing removes non-coding intron sequences to produce mature mRNA. This removal is controlled in part by RNA-binding proteins that regulate alternative splicing decisions through interactions with the splicing machinery. RNA binding motif protein 25 (RBM25) is a putative splicing factor strongly conserved across eukaryotic lineages. However, the role of RBM25 in global splicing regulation and its cellular functions are unknown. Here we show that RBM25 is required for the viability of multiple human cell lines, suggesting that it could play a key role in pre-mRNA splicing. Indeed, transcriptome-wide analysis of splicing events demonstrated that RBM25 regulates a large fraction of alternatively spliced exons throughout the human genome. Moreover, proteomic analysis indicated that RBM25 interacts with components of the early spliceosome and regulators of alternative splicing. Previously, we identified an RBM25 species that is mono-methylated at lysine 77 (RBM25K77me1), and here we used quantitative mass spectrometry to show that RBM25K77me1 is abundant in multiple human cell lines. We also identified a region of RBM25 spanning Lys-77 that binds with high affinity to serine- and arginine-rich splicing factor 2 (SRSF2), a crucial protein in exon definition, but only when Lys-77 is unmethylated. Together, our findings uncover a pivotal role for RBM25 as an essential regulator of alternative splicing and reveal a new potential mechanism for regulation of pre-mRNA splicing by lysine methylation of a splicing factor.
REST-mediated recruitment of polycomb repressor complexes in mammalian cells. Polycomb Repressive Complex (PRC) 1 and PRC2 regulate genes involved in differentiation and development. However, the mechanism for how PRC1 and PRC2 are recruited to genes in mammalian cells is unclear. Here we present evidence for an interaction between the transcription factor REST, PRC1, and PRC2 and show that RNF2 and REST co-regulate a number of neuronal genes in human teratocarcinoma cells (NT2-D1). Using NT2-D1 cells as a model of neuronal differentiation, we furthermore showed that retinoic-acid stimulation led to displacement of PRC1 at REST binding sites, reduced H3K27Me3, and increased gene expression. Genome-wide analysis of Polycomb binding in Rest-/- and Eed-/- mouse embryonic stem (mES) cells showed that Rest was required for PRC1 recruitment to a subset of Polycomb regulated neuronal genes. Furthermore, we found that PRC1 can be recruited to Rest binding sites independently of CpG islands and the H3K27Me3 mark. Surprisingly, PRC2 was frequently increased around Rest binding sites located in CpG-rich regions in the Rest-/- mES cells, indicating a more complex interplay where Rest also can limit PRC2 recruitment. Therefore, we propose that Rest has context-dependent functions for PRC1- and PRC2- recruitment, which allows this transcription factor to act both as a recruiter of Polycomb as well as a limiting factor for PRC2 recruitment at CpG islands.
RIN1 is a breast tumor suppressor gene. Breast cancer progression is driven by altered gene expression. We show that the RIN1 gene, which encodes a RAS effector regulating epithelial cell properties, is silenced in breast tumor cell lines compared with cultured human mammary epithelial cells. We also report that RIN1 is often reduced in human breast tumor cells compared with morphologically normal breast glandular cells. At least two silencing mechanisms seem to be involved. Overexpression of the transcription repressor SNAI1 (Snail) was observed in ZR75-1 cells, and SNAI1 knockdown restored RIN1 expression. In addition, DNA methylation within the RIN1 promoter and the first exon in KPL-1 cells suggested that epigenetic modifications may contribute to silencing, and demethylation was shown to restore RIN1 expression. Reexpression of RIN1 was shown to inhibit anchorage-independent growth in soft agar. In addition, RIN1 expression inhibited both the initiation and progression of tumorigenesis for two breast tumor cell lines in a mouse model, consistent with a tumor suppressor function. We also show that RIN1 acts as a negative regulator of tumor cell invasive growth and that this requires the ABL kinase-signaling function of RIN1, suggesting a mechanism through which RIN1 silencing may contribute to breast cancer progression.
RNase H2, mutated in Aicardi-Goutières syndrome, promotes LINE-1 retrotransposition. Long INterspersed Element class 1 (LINE-1) elements are a type of abundant retrotransposons active in mammalian genomes. An average human genome contains ~100 retrotransposition-competent LINE-1s, whose activity is influenced by the combined action of cellular repressors and activators. TREX1, SAMHD1 and ADAR1 are known LINE-1 repressors and when mutated cause the autoinflammatory disorder Aicardi-Goutières syndrome (AGS). Mutations in RNase H2 are the most common cause of AGS, and its activity was proposed to similarly control LINE-1 retrotransposition. It has therefore been suggested that increased LINE-1 activity may be the cause of aberrant innate immune activation in AGS. Here, we establish that, contrary to expectations, RNase H2 is required for efficient LINE-1 retrotransposition. As RNase H1 overexpression partially rescues the defect in RNase H2 null cells, we propose a model in which RNase H2 degrades the LINE-1 RNA after reverse transcription, allowing retrotransposition to be completed. This also explains how LINE-1 elements can retrotranspose efficiently without their own RNase H activity. Our findings appear to be at odds with LINE-1-derived nucleic acids driving autoinflammation in AGS.
ROS and p53 in regulation of UVB-induced HDM2 alternative splicing. Alternative splicing plays an important role in proteasome diversity and gene expression regulation in eukaryotic cells. Hdm2, the human homolog of mdm2 (murine double minute oncogene 2), is known to be an oncogene as its role in suppression of p53. Hdm2 alternative splicing, occurs in both tumor and normal tissues, is believed to be a response of cells for cellular stress, and thus modulate p53 activity. Therefore, understanding the regulation of hdm2 splicing is critical in elucidating the mechanisms of tumor development and progression. In this study, we determined the effect of ultraviolet B light (UVB) on alternative splicing of hdm2. Our data indicated that UVB (50 mJ cm-2) alone is not a good inducer of alternative splicing of hdm2. The less effectiveness could be due to the induction of ROS and p53 by UVB because removing ROS by L-NAC (10 mm) in p53 null cells could lead to alternative splicing of hdm2 upon UVB irradiation.
RPA assists HSF1 access to nucleosomal DNA by recruiting histone chaperone FACT. Transcription factor access to regulatory elements is prevented by the nucleosome. Heat shock factor 1 (HSF1) is a winged helix transcription factor that plays roles in control and stressed conditions by gaining access to target elements, but mechanisms of HSF1 access are not well known in mammalian cells. Here, we show the physical interaction between the wing motif of human HSF1 and replication protein A (RPA), which is involved in DNA metabolism. Depletion of RPA1 abolishes HSF1 access to the promoter of HSP70 in unstressed condition and delays its rapid activation in response to heat shock. The HSF1-RPA complex leads to preloading of RNA polymerase II and opens the chromatin structure by recruiting a histone chaperone, FACT. Furthermore, this interaction is required for melanoma cell proliferation. These results provide a mechanism of constitutive HSF1 access to nucleosomal DNA, which is important for both basal and inducible gene expression.
Rare Inherited Cholestatic Disorders and Molecular Links to Hepatocarcinogenesis. Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common primary liver cancer affecting adults and the second most common primary liver cancer affecting children. Recent years have seen a significant increase in our understanding of the molecular changes associated with HCC. However, HCC is a complex disease, and its molecular pathogenesis, which likely varies by aetiology, remains to be fully elucidated. Interestingly, some inherited cholestatic disorders that manifest in childhood are associated with early HCC development. This review will thus explore how three genes that are associated with liver disease in childhood (ABCB11, TJP2 and VPS33B) might play a role in the initiation and progression of HCC. Specifically, chronic bile-induced damage (caused by ABCB11 changes), disruption of intercellular junction formation (caused by TJP2 changes) and loss of normal apical–basal cell polarity (caused by VPS33B changes) will be discussed as possible mechanisms for HCC development.
Ras proteins mediate induction of uncoupling protein, IGF-I, and IGF-I receptor in rat fetal brown adipocyte cell lines. Since Ras proteins are essential intermediates of some insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I)/insulin signaling pathways, we examined whether Ras proteins mediate the IGF-I-induced uncoupling protein expression. Additionally, the role of Ras proteins on IGF-I and IGF-I receptor expression was studied. IGF-I treatment of fetal brown adipocytes cotransfected with inducible gene constructs of SV40 large T antigen (SV40LTag) and a transforming ras gene induced uncoupling protein expression (UCP) in the absence of expression of the transfected genes. The expression of the dexamethasone-inducible transforming ras gene alone or in combination with the Zn-inducible SV40LTag mimicked the IGF-I effect inducing UCP expression and IGF-I did not induce it further. However, the expression of the Zn- inducible SV40LTag did not increase UCP expression in the absence of IGF-I. Expression of the transfected ras oncogene also induced IGF-I and IGF-I receptor mRNAs, whereas expression of SV40LTag did not increase them. Specific IGF-I binding was also specifically increased by expression of the transfected ras oncogene but was not affected by expression of the SV40LTag construct. These results indicate that Ras proteins mediate the IGF-I- induced effect on UCP expression and play a role in the expression of IGF-I and IGF-I receptor. Therefore, an IGF-I autocrine/paracrine loop might be implicated in the process of thermogenic differentiation of brown adipose tissue by a new mechanism unlike that induced by norepinephrine.
Ras regulates the association of serum response factor and CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein β. The serum response element (SRE) is a promoter element essential for transcriptional activation of immediate early genes, such as c-fos and early growth response-1, by mitogenic signals. Several transcription factors bind the SRE, including the serum response factor (SRF), the ternary complex factor, and the CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein β (C/EBPβ). The C/EBPβ mRNA encodes three translation products of 38, 35, and 20 kDa. p35-C/EBPβ activates transcription of the SRE in an SRF-dependent fashion, whereas p20- C/EBPβ, which initiates at an internal in-frame methionine, lacks a transactivation domain and inhibits transcription. We show that SRF and C/EBPβ interact in vivo through the DNA binding domain of SRF and the C terminus of C/EBPβ common to p35/38 and p20. Therefore, like the ternary complex factor, C/EBPβ may be recruited to the SRE not only by binding to the DNA, which is not a high affinity site, but also by protein-protein interactions with SRF. Strikingly, in both the mammalian two-hybrid assay and in vivo coimmunoprecipitations, the association of SRF and p35-C/EBPβ but not p20-C/EBPβ is dramatically stimulated by activated Ras. Furthermore, mutation of the threonine within a mitogen-activated protein kinase consensus motif in the C terminus of C/EBPβ eliminates the response to Ras. These results suggest a new mechanism by which mitogenic signals may influence transcription activity of the SRE by selectively promoting protein-protein interactions between SRF and the transactivator p35-C/EBPβ.
Rb1 negatively regulates bone formation and remodeling through inhibiting transcriptional regulation of YAP in Glut1 and OPG expression and glucose metabolism in male mice. Objective: Bone is a highly dynamic organ that undergoes constant bone formation and remodeling, and glucose as a major nutrient is necessary for bone formation and remodeling. Retinoblastoma (Rb1) is a critical regulator of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) fate, but how Rb1 regulates bone formation and remodeling is poorly understood. Methods: We generated MSCs- and osteoprogenitors-specific Rb1 knockout mouse models and utilized these models to explore the function and mechanism of Rb1 in regulating bone formation and remodeling in vivo and in vitro primary cell culture. Results: Rb1 deficiency in MSCs significantly increased bone mass and impaired osteoclastogenesis. Consistently, depletion of Rb1 in osteoprogenitors significantly promoted bone formation. Mechanistically, loss of Rb1 in MSCs elevated YAP nuclear translocation and transcriptional activity of YAP/TEAD1 complex, thereby increasing the transcriptional expression of Glut1 and OPG. Moreover Prx1-Cre; Rb1f/f mice displayed hypoglycemia with increased systemic glucose tolerance instead of increased insulin level. In vitro data revealed that Rb1-mutant MSCs enhanced glucose uptake and lactate and ATP production. Increased osteogenesis caused by increased glucose metabolism and decreased osteoclastogenesis caused by increased expression of OPG eventually resulted in increased bone formation and remodeling. Conclusions: Collectively, these findings demonstrated that Rb1 in MSCs inhibits YAP-medicated Glut1 and OPG expression to control glucose metabolism, osteogenesis and osteoclastogenesis during bone formation and remodeling, which provide new insights that controlling Rb1 signaling may be a potential strategy for osteopetrosis.
Reciprocal modulation between Sp1 and Egr-1. Many ubiquitously expressed genes, including oncogenes, lack a proximal TATA or CAAT box but have a region of G + C-rich sequences that appears to replace the usual promoter initiation site. The zinc-finger protein Sp1 is one of the prevalent activators of these genes. The Egr-1 zinc-finger protein has a similar binding site and if the two sites occur in the same region, a variety of activation or inhibitory responses may be obtained. We show that competition between the two factors for overlapping sites on growth-promoting genes could explain why the overexpression of Egr-1 suppresses transformed growth in a number of cell types [Huang  (1995): Cancer Res 55:5054- 5062; Huang  (1997): Int J Cancer]. We demonstrate here that Egr-1 and Sp1 can bind to the same G + C-rich sites and that Egr-1 can displace Sp1 and hence inhibit its activity. We measured the responses of synthetic consensus binding sites and natural promoter sequences linked to a reporter gene and showed that Egr-1 inhibited the activation of transcription by Sp1 on overlapping Sp1/Egr-1 sites. In contrast, Sp1 activity could be augmented by Egr-1 at nonoverlapping sites in the Egr-1 gene promoter, in transient reporter gene studies in Drosophila SL2 cells. In addition, over-expression of exogenous Sp1 in mammalian cells, also leads to increased Egr-1 protein expression, which further inhibits Sp1 transactivation of numerous genes. Therefore, we can account for some of the complex responses of G + C-rich enhancer/promoters by a form of 'facilitated inhibition' of Sp1 by Egr-1 at overlapping sites.
Redefining regulation of DNA methylation by RNA interference. Epigenetic changes refer to heritable changes that may modulate gene expression without affecting DNA sequence. DNA methylation is one such heritable epigenetic change, which is causally associated with the transcription regulation of many genes in the mammalian genome. Altered DNA methylation has been implicated in a wide variety of human diseases including cancer. Understanding the regulation of DNA methylation is likely to improve the ability to diagnose and treat these diseases. With the advent of high-throughput RNA interference (RNAi) screens, answering epigenetic questions on a genomic scale is now possible. Two recent genome-wide RNAi screens have addressed the regulation of DNA methylation in cancer, leading to the identification of the regulators of epigenetic silencing by oncogenic RAS and how epigenetic silencing of the tumor suppressor RASSF1A is maintained. These RNAi screens have much wider applications, since similar screens can now be adapted to identify the mechanism of silencing of any human disease-associated gene that is epigenetically regulated. In this review, we discuss two recent genome-wide RNAi screens for epigenetic regulators and explore potential applications in understanding DNA methylation and gene expression regulation in mammalian cells. We also discuss some of the key unanswered questions in the field of DNA methylation and suggest genome-wide RNAi screens designed to answer them.
Redox signaling and histone acetylation in acute pancreatitis. Histone acetylation via CBP/p300 coordinates the expression of proinflammatory cytokines in the activation phase of inflammation, particularly through mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB), and signal transducers and activators of transcription (STAT) pathways. In contrast, histone deacetylases (HDACs) and protein phosphatases are mainly involved in the attenuation phase of inflammation. The role of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in the inflammatory cascade is much more important than expected. Mitochondrial ROS act as signal-transducing molecules that trigger proinflammatory cytokine production via inflammasome-independent and inflammasome-dependent pathways. The major source of ROS in acute inflammation seems to be NADPH oxidases, whereas NF-κB, protein phosphatases, and HDACs are the major targets of ROS and redox signaling in this process. There is a cross-talk between oxidative stress and proinflammatory cytokines through serine/threonine protein phosphatases, tyrosine protein phosphatases, and MAPKs that greatly contributes to amplification of the uncontrolled inflammatory cascade and tissue injury in acute pancreatitis. Chromatin remodeling during induction of proinflammatory genes would depend primarily on phosphorylation of transcription factors and their binding to gene promoters together with recruitment of histone acetyltransferases. PP2A should be considered a key modulator of the inflammatory cascade in acute pancreatitis through the ERK/NF-κB pathway and histone acetylation.
Reduction of two histone marks, H3k9me3 and H3k27me3 by epidrug induces neuroendocrine differentiation in prostate cancer. Neuroendocrine prostate cancer (NE PCa) is an aggressive malignancy, often presenting with advanced metastasis. We previously reported that reduction of histone marks regulated by DNMT1 following epidrug (5-Azacitidine, 5-Aza) treatment controls induction of epithelial to mesenchymal (EMT) and a cancer stem cell (CSC) phenotype, which facilitates tumorigenesis in PCa cells. Here, we use the epidrug 5-Aza as a model for how histone marks may regulate the reprogramming of prostate adenocarcinoma into NE phenotypic cells. First, we observed that 5-Aza treatment of PCa cells in vitro induces a neuron-like phenotype. In addition, significant increases in the expression of the NE markers N-Myc downstream regulated gene 1 (NDRG1), enolase-2 (ENO2), and synaptophysin were observed. Critically, a high density of NE cells with synaptophysin expression was found in tumors generated by 5-Aza pretreatment of PCa cells. Importantly, induction of NE differentiation of PCa cells was associated with an enhancement of NDRG1 expression by reduction of two histone marks, H3K9me3 and H3K27me3. Further, more NDRG1 expression was detected in the subset of PCa cells with reduced expression of H3K9me3 or H3K27me3 in the tumors generated by 5-Aza pretreated PCa cells and critically, these biological differences are also observed in small cell carcinoma in advanced stage of human primary PCa tumors. Our results suggest that reduction of histone marks regulated by the epidrug 5-Aza may control induction of a NE phenotype, which facilitates PCa progression. These studies suggest a strong rationale for developing therapeutics, which target epigenetic regulation.
Redundant cooperative interactions for assembly of a human U6 transcription initiation complex. The core human U6 promoter consists of a proximal sequence element (PSE) located upstream of a TATA box. The PSE is recognized by the snRNA-activating protein complex (SNAPc), which consists of five types of subunits, SNAP190, SNAP50, SNAP45, SNAP43, and SNAP19. The TATA box is recognized by TATA box binding protein (TBP). In addition, basal U6 transcription requires the SANT domain protein Bdp1 and the transcription factor IIB-related factor Brf2. SNAPc and mini-SNAPc, which consists of just SNAP43, SNAP50, and the N-terminal third of SNAP190, bind cooperatively with TBP to the core U6 promoter. By generating complexes smaller than mini-SNAPc, we have identified a 50-amino-acid region within SNAP190 that is (i) required for cooperative binding with TBP in the context of mini-SNAPc and (ii) sufficient for cooperative binding with TBP when fused to a heterologous DNA binding domain. We show that derivatives of mini-SNAPc lacking this region are active for transcription and that with such complexes, TBP can still be recruited to the U6 promoter through cooperative interactions with Brf2. Our results identify complexes smaller than mini-SNAPc that are transcriptionally active and show that there are at least two redundant mechanisms to stably recruit TBP to the U6 transcription initiation complex.
Regulated expression and intracellular localization of cystatin F in human U937 cells. Cystatin F is a cysteine peptidase inhibitor recently discovered in haematopoietic cells by cDNA cloning. To further investigate the expression, distribution and properties of the native human inhibitor the promyeloid cell line U937 has been studied. The cells expressed relatively large quantities of cystatin F, which was found both secreted and intracellularly. The intracellular levels were unusually high for a secreted cystatin (≈ 25% of the cystatin F in 2- or 4-day culture medium). By contrast, U937 cells contained only 3-4% of the related inhibitor, cystatin C. Cystatin F purified from lysates of U937 cells showed three major forms carrying two, one or no carbohydrate chains. Immunocytochemistry demonstrated a marked cytoplasmic cystatin F staining in a granular pattern. Double staining with a marker for endoplasmic reticulum revealed no colocalization for cystatin F. Analysis of the promoter region of the cystatin F gene (CST7) showed that it, like that of the cystatin C gene (CST3), is devoid of typical TATA- and CAAT-box elements. In contrast to the cystatin C promoter, it does not contain multiple Sp1 binding sites, but has a unique site for C/EBPα, possibly explaining the restricted expression of the cystatin F gene. Cells stimulated with all-trans retinoic acid to differentiate them towards a granulocytic pathway, showed a strong (≈ 18-fold) down-regulation of intracellular cystatin F and almost abolished secreted levels of the inhibitor. Stimulation with tetradecanoyl phorbol acetate, causing monocytic differentiation, also resulted in down-regulation (two fold to threefold) of cystatin F expression, whereas the cystatin C expression was essentially unaltered in both experiments. The results suggest that cystatin F as an intracellular cysteine peptidase inhibitor with readily regulated expression, may be a candidate to control the cysteine peptidase activity known to be essential for antigen presentation in different blood cell lineages.
Regulation of BDNF chromatin status and promoter accessibility in a neural correlate of associative learning. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) gene expression critically controls learning and its aberrant regulation is implicated in Alzheimer’s disease and a host of neurodevelopmental disorders. The BDNF gene is target of known DNA regulatory mechanisms but details of its activity-dependent regulation are not fully characterized. We performed a comprehensive analysis of the epigenetic regulation of the turtle BDNF gene (tBDNF) during a neural correlate of associative learning using an in vitro model of eye blink classical conditioning. Shortly after conditioning onset, the results from ChIP-qPCR show conditioning-dependent increases in methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MeCP2) and repressor basic helix-loop-helix binding protein 2 (BHLHB2) binding to tBDNF promoter II that corresponds with transcriptional repression. In contrast, enhanced binding of ten-eleven translocation protein 1 (Tet1), extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2), and cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) to promoter III corresponds with transcriptional activation. These actions are accompanied by rapid modifications in histone methylation and phosphorylation status of RNA polymerase II (RNAP II). Significantly, these remarkably coordinated changes in epigenetic factors for two alternatively regulated tBDNF promoters during conditioning are controlled by Tet1 and ERK1/2. Our findings indicate that Tet1 and ERK1/2 are critical partners that, through complementary functions, control learning-dependent tBDNF promoter accessibility required for rapid transcription and acquisition of classical conditioning.
Regulation of Heme Oxygenase-1 Expression in Vivo and in Vitro in Hyperoxic Lung Injury. Using hyperoxia as a model of oxidant-induced lung injury in the rat, we explored the regulation of heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) expression in vivo and in vitro. We demonstrate marked increase of HO-1 messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) levels in rat lungs after hyperoxia. Increased HO-1 mRNA expression correlated with increased HO-1 protein and enzyme activity. Immunohistochemical studies of the rat lung after hyperoxia showed increased HO-1 expression in a variety of cell types, including the bronchoalveolar epithelium and interstitial and inflammatory cells. We then examined the regulation of HO-1 expression in vitro after hyperoxia and observed increased HO-1 gene expression in various cultured cells including epithelial cells, fibroblasts, macrophages, and smooth muscle cells. Increased HO-1 mRNA expression correlated with increased HO-1 protein in vitro, and resulted from increased gene transcription and not from increased mRNA stability. We show that transcriptional activation of the HO-1 gene by hyperoxia requires cooperation between the HO-1 promoter and an enhancer fragment located 4 kb upstream from its transcription site. Increased HO-1 gene transcription was associated with increased activator protein-1 (AP-1) binding activity and supershift of the AP-1 complex by antibodies to c-Fos and c-Jun after hyperoxia. Taken together, our data suggest that AP-1 activation may represent one mechanism mediating hyperoxia-induced HO-1 gene transcription.
Regulation of IFN-γ-induced nuclear expression of IFN consensus sequence binding protein in murine peritoneal macrophages. IFNs are well characterized macrophage-activating agents. Their varied effects are largely mediated via the induction of many genes, whose products act in concert to induce macrophage differentiation. Homologous DNA sequences have been found upstream of the promoter in many of these IFN-inducible genes and bind a family of trans-acting proteins. Interferon consensus sequence binding protein (ICSBP) is one member of this family of interferon regulatory factors (IRF) and is structurally related within the DNA-binding domain to the other members, IRF-1, IRF-2, and ISGF3γ. ISCBP mRNA levels become elevated in response to IFN-γ; however, little is known about the regulation of ICSBP expression at the protein level. In this study, anti-ICSBP peptide Abs were used to quantify and localize ICSBP in murine peritoneal exudate macrophages. Western blot analysis of cytoplasmic and nuclear extracts from treated and control cells revealed ICSBP to be induced by IFN-γ and not by IFN-α and to exist primarily in the nucleus. The regulation of ICSBP induction by IFN-γ was consistent with the characteristics found at the mRNA level; inhibition by IFN-α or glucocorticoids and the requirement for protein kinase C (as determined pharmacologically). The time course of IFN- γ-induced ICSBP showed an induction of protein that required ~12 h to reach maximal levels. Induced ICSBP was relatively stable, exhibiting a half-life of ~48 h. Indirect immunofluorescence also demonstrated ICSBP to be an IFN- γ-inducible protein that is strongly localized to the nucleus.
Regulation of KLF5 involves the Sp1 transcription factor in human epithelial cells. Human Kruppel-like factor 5 (hKLF5) is a transcription factor with a potential tumor suppressor function in prostate and breast cancers. In the majority of cancer samples examined, a significant loss of expression for KLF5 has been detected. Whereas hemizygous deletion appears to be responsible for KLF5's reduced expression in about half of the cases, the mechanism for reduction is unknown in the remaining half; gene promoter methylation does not appear to be involved. In this report, we studied the regulation of KLF5 and cloned and functionally characterized a 1944-bp fragment of the 5′-flanking region of the hKLF5 gene. Several mitogens as well as global demethylation induced the expression of KLF5, implicating multiple factors in the regulation of KLF5. KLF5's promoter lacks a TATA box and has a GC-rich region. Deletion mapping in combination with promoter activity assay showed that multiple cis-elements are involved in the transcriptional regulation of KLF5, some of which may play a repressor role whereas some others play an enhancer role. The Sp1 site between position -239 and -219 is essential for a basal promoter activity. Deletion or mutations of this Sp1 site significantly reduced promoter activity in several epithelial cell lines. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSAs) revealed that the Sp1 site binds Sp1 protein in nucleic extracts of different cell lines. In addition, overexpression of Sp1 protein transactivates KLF5 promoter activity. These findings suggest that Sp1 is a key transcription factor in KLF5's dynamic transcriptional regulation.
Regulation of LMP2 and TAP1 genes by IRF-1 explains the paucity of CD8+ T cells in IRF-1(-/-) mice. The TAP1 and LMP2 genes are central for class I MHC function and share a common promoter. Here, we analyze the molecular mechanism of IFNγ up-regulation of TAP1 and LMP2. In vivo footprinting indicates IFNγ up-regulates protein-DNA contacts at an IRF-E that is essential for the up-regulation of TAP1 and LMP2 by IFNγ. Gel shift analysis indicates that this;site binds IRF-1. The expression of TAP1 and LMP2 are both greatly reduced in IRF-1-deficient mice. Surface class I MHC as well as CD8+ T cells are reduced in IRF-1(-/-) mice. The role of IRF-1 in the regulation of TAP1 and LMP2 suggests a mechanism for the antiviral properties of IRF-1 and the unexpected deficiency of CD8+ T cells observed in IRF-1(-/-) mice.
Regulation of MYB by distal enhancer elements in human myeloid leukemia. MYB plays vital roles in regulating proliferation and differentiation of hematopoietic progenitor cells, dysregulation of MYB has been implicated in the pathogenesis of leukemia. Although the transcription of MYB has been well studied, its detailed underlying regulatory mechanisms still remain elusive. Here, we detected the long-range interaction between the upstream regions, −34k and −88k, and the MYB promoter in K562, U937, and HL-60 cells using circularized chromosome conformation capture (4C) assay, which declined when MYB was downregulated during chemical-induced differentiation. The enrichment of enhancer markers, H3K4me1 and H3K27ac, and enhancer activity at the −34k and −88k regions were confirmed by ChIP-qPCR and luciferase assay respectively. ChIP-qPCR showed the dynamic binding of GATA1, TAL1, and CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein (C/EBPβ) at −34k and −88k during differentiation of K562 cells. Epigenome editing by a CRISPR-Cas9-based method showed that H3K27ac at −34k enhanced TF binding and MYB expression, while DNA methylation inhibited MYB expression. Taken together, our data revealed that enhancer elements at −34k are required for MYB expression, TF binding, and epigenetic modification are closely involved in this process in human myeloid leukemia cells.
Regulation of apoptosis by Bat3-enhanced YWK-II/APLP2 protein stability. YWK-II protein/APLP2 is a member of an evolutionarily conserved protein family that includes amyloid precursor protein (APP) and amyloid precursor-like protein-1 (APLP1). We have previously demonstrated that YWK-II/APLP2 functions as a novel G0-proteincoupled receptor for Müllerian inhibiting substance (MIS) in cell survival. However, factors regulating the stability and turnover of YWK-II/APLP2 have not been identified. Here we present evidence that human leukocyte antigen-B-associated transcript 3 (Bat3), an important regulator involved in apoptosis, can interact with YWK-II/APLP2 and enhance its stability by reducing its ubiquitylation and degradation by the ubiquitin-proteasome system. Coexpression of different Bat3 domain deletion constructs with YWK-II/APLP2 reveals that the proline-rich domain of Bat3 is required for its binding to YWK-II/APLP2. In addition, we find that the protein levels of YWK-II/APLP2 could be enhanced by nuclear export of Bat3 under apoptotic stimulation. We also find elevated levels of Bat3 and YWK-II/APLP2 in human colorectal cancer with a positive correlation between the two. Taken together, these results have revealed a previously undefined mechanism regulating cell apoptosis and suggest that aberrant enhancement of YWK-II/APLP2 by nuclear export of Bat3 may play a role in cancer development by inhibiting cell apoptosis.
Regulation of gene expression by internal ribosome entry sites or cryptic promoters: The eIF4G story. As an alternative to the scanning mechanism of initiation, the direct-internal-initiation mechanism postulates that the translational machinery assembles at the AUG start codon without traversing the entire 5′ untranslated region (5′-UTR) of the mRNA. Although the existence of internal ribosome entry sites (IRESs) in viral mRNAs is considered to be well established, the existence of IRESs in cellular mRNAs has recently been challenged, in part because when testing is carried out using a conventional dicistronic vector, Northern blot analyses might not be sensitive enough to detect low levels of monocistronic transcripts derived via a cryptic promoter or splice site. To address this concern, we created a new promoterless dicistronic vector to test the putative IRES derived from the 5′-UTR of an mRNA that encodes the translation initiation factor eIF4G. Our analysis of this 5′-UTR sequence unexpectedly revealed a strong promoter. The activity of the internal promoter relies on the integrity of a polypyrimidine tract (PPT) sequence that had been identified as an essential component of the IRES. The PPT sequence overlaps with a binding site for transcription factor C/EBPβ. Two other transcription factors, Sp1 and Ets, were also found to bind to and mediate expression from the promoter in the 5′-UTR of eIF4G mRNA. The biological significance of the internal promoter in the eIF4G mRNA might lie in the production of an N-terminally truncated form of the protein. Consistent with the idea that the cryptic promoter we identified underlies the previously reported IRES activity, we found no evidence of IRES function when a dicistronic mRNA containing the eIF4G sequence was translated in vitro or in vivo. Using the promoterless dicistronic vector, we also found promoter activities in the long 5′-UTRs of human Sno and mouse Bad mRNAs although monocistronic transcripts were not detectable on Northern blot analyses. The promoterless dicistronic vector might therefore prove useful in future studies to examine more rigorously the claim that there is IRES activity in cellular mRNAs.
Regulation of nerve growth factor and its low-affinity receptor (p75(NTR)) during myogenic differentiation. In our preceding report, we have shown that nerve growth factor (NGF) and its low-affinity receptor (p75(NTR)) are expressed in C2C12 myoblasts and downregulated during myogenic differentiation. Furthermore, NGF affects myogenic differentiation and cell growth via p75(NTR) and downregulation of p75(NTR) is essential for myogenic differentiation (Seidl , 1998). Here we show that NGF and p75(NTR) are regulated by mechanisms preceding terminal differentiation in myogenic cells. These mechanisms include cell-density phenomena such as cell-cell contact as well as signaling of basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF-2) and its receptor (FGFR1). Downregulation of NGF and p75(NTR) occurred as a consequence of increasing cell density, an important trigger for the onset of myogenic differentiation. FGF-2 and FGFR1 were shown to be present in C2C12 cells and exogenous FGF-2 induced NGF and p75(NTR) expression, implying that FGF/FGFR signaling is an upstream regulator of the NGF/p75(NTR) system. The fact that FGF-2 could suspend yet not abolish density-induced downregulation indicates that cell-cell contact counteracts the FGF effect and ultimately terminates NGF/p75(NTR) signaling. This evidence, together with the observation that p75(NTR) expression is suppressed in muscle progenitors, which constitutively express adenovirus E1A proteins and thus lack the competence of myogenic differentiation, underline the important role for the NGF/p75(NTR) system in the interplay of multiple factors and biological systems that balance myogenic differentiation at the appropriate spatial and temporal level.
Regulation of oncogenic KRAS signaling via a novel KRAS-integrin-linked kinase-hnRNPA1 regulatory loop in human pancreatic cancer cells. Integrin-linked kinase (ILK) is a mediator of aggressive phenotype in pancreatic cancer. On the basis of our finding that knockdown of either KRAS or ILK has a reciprocal effect on the other's expression, we hypothesized the presence of an ILK-KRAS regulatory loop that enables pancreatic cancer cells to regulate KRAS expression. This study aimed to elucidate the mechanism by which this regulatory circuitry is regulated and to investigate the translational potential of targeting ILK to suppress oncogenic KRAS signaling in pancreatic cancer. Interplay between KRAS and ILK and the roles of E2F1, c-Myc and heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein as intermediary effectors in this feedback loop was interrogated by genetic manipulations through small interfering RNA/short hairpin RNA knockdown and ectopic expression, western blotting, PCR, promoter-luciferase reporter assays, chromatin immunoprecipitation and pull-down analyses. In vivo efficacy of ILK inhibition was evaluated in two murine xenograft models. Our data show that KRAS regulated the expression of ILK through E2F1-mediated transcriptional activation, which, in turn, controlled KRAS gene expression via hnRNPA1-mediated destabilization of the G-quadruplex on the KRAS promoter. Moreover, ILK inhibition blocked KRAS-driven epithelial-mesenchymal transition and growth factor-stimulated KRAS expression. The knockdown or pharmacological inhibition of ILK suppressed pancreatic tumor growth, in part, by suppressing KRAS signaling. These studies suggest that this KRAS-E2F1-ILK-hnRNPA1 regulatory loop enables pancreatic cancer cells to promote oncogenic KRAS signaling and to interact with the tumor microenvironment to promote aggressive phenotypes. This regulatory loop provides a mechanistic rationale for targeting ILK to suppress oncogenic KRAS signaling, which might foster new therapeutic strategies for pancreatic cancer.
Regulatory Mechanisms of the RNA Modification m6A and Significance in Brain Function in Health and Disease. RNA modifications have emerged as an additional layer of regulatory complexity governing the function of almost all species of RNA. N6-methyladenosine (m6A), the addition of methyl groups to adenine residues, is the most abundant and well understood RNA modification. The current review discusses the regulatory mechanisms governing m6A, how this influences neuronal development and function and how aberrant m6A signaling may contribute to neurological disease. M6A is known to regulate the stability of mRNA, the processing of microRNAs and function/processing of tRNAs among other roles. The development of antibodies against m6A has facilitated the application of next generation sequencing to profile methylated RNAs in both health and disease contexts, revealing the extent of this transcriptomic modification. The mechanisms by which m6A is deposited, processed, and potentially removed are increasingly understood. Writer enzymes include METTL3 and METTL14 while YTHDC1 and YTHDF1 are key reader proteins, which recognize and bind the m6A mark. Finally, FTO and ALKBH5 have been identified as potential erasers of m6A, although there in vivo activity and the dynamic nature of this modification requires further study. M6A is enriched in the brain and has emerged as a key regulator of neuronal activity and function in processes including neurodevelopment, learning and memory, synaptic plasticity, and the stress response. Changes to m6A have recently been linked with Schizophrenia and Alzheimer disease. Elucidating the functional consequences of m6A changes in these and other brain diseases may lead to novel insight into disease pathomechanisms, molecular biomarkers and novel therapeutic targets.
Reinitiation involving upstream ORFs regulates ATF4 mRNA translation in mammalian cells. During cellular stresses, phosphorylation of eukaryotic initiation factor-2 (elF2) elicits gene expression designed to ameliorate the underlying cellular disturbance. Central to this stress response is the transcriptional regulator activating transcription factor, ATF4. Here we describe the mechanism regulating ATF4 expression involving the differential contribution of two upstream ORFs (uORFs) in the 5′ leader of the mouse ATF4 mRNA. The 5′ proximal uORF1 is a positive-acting element that facilitates ribosome scanning and reinitiation at downstream coding regions in the ATF4 mRNA. When elF2-GTP is abundant in nonstressed cells, ribosomes scanning downstream of uORF1 reinitiate at the next coding region, uORF2, an inhibitory element that blocks ATF4 expression. During stress conditions, phosphorylation of elF2 and the accompanying reduction in the levels of elF2-GTP increase the time required for the scanning ribosomes to become competent to reinitiate translation. This delayed reinitiation allows for ribosomes to scan through the inhibitory uORF2 and instead reinitiate at the ATF4-coding region. Increased expression of ATF4 would contribute to the expression of genes involved in remediation of cellular stress damage. These results suggest that the mechanism of translation reinitiation involving uORFs is conserved from yeast to mammals.
RelB sustains IκBα expression during endotoxin tolerance. Transcription factors and chromatin structural modifiers induce clinically relevant epigenetic modifications of blood leukocytes during severe systemic inflammation (SSI) in humans and animals. These changes affect genes with distinct functions, as exemplified by the silencing of a set of acute proinflammatory genes and the sustained expression of a group of antimicrobial and anti-inflammatory genes. This paradigm is closely mimicked in the THP-1 human promonocyte cell model of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) endotoxin tolerance. We previously reported that LPS-induced de novo expression of RelB is required for generating tolerance to interleukin-1β (IL-1β) and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) expression. RelB represses transcription by binding with heterochromatic protein 1 α (HP1α) to the proximal promoters of IL-1β and TNF-α. In contrast, we report herein that RelB is required for sustained expression of anti-inflammatory IκBα in LPS-tolerant THP-1 cells. RelB transcription activation requires binding to the IκBα proximal promoter along with NF-κB p50 and is associated with an apparent dimer exchange with p65. We also observed that RelB induced during human SSI binds to the IκBα proximal promoter of circulating leukocytes. We conclude that RelB functions as a dual transcription regulator during LPS tolerance and human SSI by activating and repressing innate immunity genes.
Replication protein A prevents accumulation of single-stranded telomeric DNA in cells that use alternative lengthening of telomeres. The activation of a telomere maintenance mechanism is required for cancer development in humans. While most tumors achieve this by expressing the enzyme telomerase, a fraction (5-15%) employs a recombination-based mechanism termed alternative lengthening of telomeres (ALT). Here we show that loss of the single-stranded DNA-binding protein replication protein A (RPA) in human ALT cells, but not in telomerase-positive cells, causes increased exposure of single-stranded G-rich telomeric DNA, cell cycle arrest in G2/M phase, accumulation of single-stranded telomeric DNA within ALT-associated PML bodies (APBs), and formation of telomeric aggregates at the ends of metaphase chromosomes. This study demonstrates differences between ALT cells and telomerase-positive cells in the requirement for RPA in telomere processing and implicates the ALT mechanism in tumor cells as a possible therapeutic target.
Replication stress by Py-Im polyamides induces a non-canonical ATR-dependent checkpoint response. Pyrrole-imidazole polyamides targeted to the androgen response element were cytotoxic in multiple cell lines, independent of intact androgen receptor signaling. Polyamide treatment induced accumulation of S-phase cells and of PCNA replication/repair foci. Activation of a cell cycle checkpoint response was evidenced by autophosphorylation of ATR, the S-phase checkpoint kinase, and by recruitment of ATR and the ATR activators RPA, 9-1-1, and Rad17 to chromatin. Surprisingly, ATR activation was accompanied by only a slight increase in single-stranded DNA, and the ATR targets RPA2 and Chk1, a cell cycle checkpoint kinase, were not phosphorylated. However, ATR activation resulted in phosphorylation of the replicative helicase subunit MCM2, an ATR effector. Polyamide treatment also induced accumulation of monoubiquitinated FANCD2, which is recruited to stalled replication forks and interacts transiently with phospho-MCM2. This suggests that polyamides induce replication stress that ATR can counteract independently of Chk1 and that the FA/BRCA pathway may also be involved in the response to polyamides. In biochemical assays, polyamides inhibit DNA helicases, providing a plausible mechanism for S-phase inhibition.
Repression of the desmocollin 2 gene expression in human colon cancer cells is relieved by the homeodomain transcription factors Cdx1 and Cdx2. Desmosomes are intracellular junctions that provide strong cell-cell adhesion in epithelia and cardiac muscle. Their disruption causes several human diseases and contributes to the epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition observed in cancer. Desmocollin 2 (DSC2) is a cadherin superfamily member and a critical component of desmosomes found in intestinal epithelium. However, the mechanism regulating DSC2 gene expression in intestinal cells is not known. Cdx1 and Cdx2 are homeodomain transcription factors that regulate intestine-specific gene expression. Cdx expression in the past has been associated with the induction of desmosomes. We now show that the DSC2 gene is a transcriptional target for Cdx1 and Cdx2. Colon cancer cell lines retaining Cdx2 expression typically express DSC2. Restoration of Cdx expression in Colo 205 cells induced DSC2 mRNA and protein and the formation of desmosomes. The 5′-flanking region of the DSC2 promoter contains two consensus Cdx-binding sites. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays show that Cdx1 and Cdx2 bind these sites in vitro, and chromatin immunoprecipitation confirmed Cdx2 binding in vivo. DSC2 promoter truncations established that these regions are Cdx responsive. The truncations also identify a region of the promoter in which potent transcriptional repressors act. This repressor activity is relieved by Cdx binding. We conclude that the homeodomain transcription factors Cdx1 and Cdx2 regulate DSC2 gene expression in intestinal epithelia by reversing the actions of a transcriptional repressor. The regulation of desmosomal junctions by Cdx contributes to normal intestinal epithelial columnar morphology and likely antagonizes the epithelial-to- mesenchymal transition necessary for the metastasis of colon cancer cells in humans.
Requirement for lysosomal localization of mTOR for its activation differs between leucine and other amino acids. The mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) is a master regulator of cell growth and metabolism. It controls many cell functions by integrating nutrient availability and growth factor signals. Amino acids, and in particular leucine, are among the main positive regulators of mTORC1 signaling. The current model for the regulation of mTORC1 by amino acids involves the movement of mTOR to the lysosome mediated by the Rag-GTPases. Here, we have examined the control of mTORC1 signaling and mTOR localization by amino acids and leucine in serum-fed cells, because both serum growth factors (or, e.g., insulin) and amino acids are required for full activation of mTORC1 signaling. We demonstrate that mTORC1 activity does not closely correlate with the lysosomal localization of mTOR. In particular, leucine controls mTORC1 activity without any detectable modification of the lysosomal localization of mTOR, indicating that the signal(s) exerted by leucine is likely distinct from those exerted by other amino acids. In addition, knock-down of the Rag-GTPases attenuated the inhibitory effect of amino acid- or leucine-starvation on the phosphorylation of mTORC1 targets. Furthermore, data from cells where Rag expression has been knocked down revealed that leucine can promote mTORC1 signaling independently of the lysosomal localization of mTOR. Our data complement existing models for the regulation of mTORC1 by amino acids and provide new insights into this important topic.
Research progress of IGF-1R in ophthalmology. Insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (IGF-1R), a member of the family of tyrosine protein kinase, mediates the activity of the IGF-1. IGF-1R can promote the proliferation and migration of cells and inhibit the apoptosis of cells. IGF-1R shows a high level expression and presents a close relationship with a variety of biological characteristics such as invasion and metastasis of choroid melanoma, and it influences the pathogenesis and progress of thyroid related ophthalmopathy, working together with thyroid stimulating hormone receptor (TSHR) through different signaling pathways. Also TGF-1R, targeting vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), may promote the pathogenesis and development of new retinal vascular diseases through the insulin receptor substrate 1 (IRS-1). Other IGF-1R related biological effects were found in eye diseases, such as refractive error and cataract, ect., hinting us that as a molecular targete, IGF-1R will become a new topic of gene therapy for eye diseases.
Response to hypoxia involves transforming growth factor-β2 and Smad proteins in human endothelial cells. Oxygen deprivation (hypoxia) is a consistent component of ischemia that induces an inflammatory and prothrombotic response in the endothelium. In this report, it is demonstrated that exposure of endothelial cells to hypoxia (1% O2) increases messenger RNA and protein levels of transforming growth factor-β2 (TGF-β2), a cytokine with potent regulatory effects on vascular inflammatory responses. Messenger RNA levels of the TGF-β2 type II membrane receptor, which is a serine threonine kinase, also increased. The stimulatory effect of hypoxia was found to occur at the level of transcription of the TGF-β2 gene and involves Smad proteins, a class of intracellular signaling proteins that mediates the downstream effects of TGF-β receptors. Transient transfection studies showed that the region spanning -77 and -40 base pairs within the TGF-β2 promoter (harboring a Smad-binding "CAGA box") is activated in hypoxic cells compared with nonhypoxic controls (P < .01). Hypoxia also stimulated transcription from another promoter, 3TP-Lux, a reporter construct responsive to Smads and TGF-β. In addition, specific binding to a Smad-binding oligonucleotide was observed with nuclear extracts from hypoxic endothelial cells but not from nonhypoxic cells. It is concluded that Smad proteins, which can regulate endothelial responses to mechanical and inflammatory stress, also may play an important role in vascular responses to hypoxia and ischemia.
Risk of chronic kidney disease in type 2 diabetes determined by polymorphisms in NOS3, APOB, KCNJ11, TCF7L2 genes as compound effect of risk genotypes combination. Genetic susceptibility plays an important role in the risk of developing chronic complications in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Aims: In this study, we evaluated the possible association of the polymorphic variants that encode key renal damage mediators (endothelial dysfunction, lipid metabolism and insulin secretion/sensitivity) with the risk of chronic kidney disease (CKD) in patients with T2DM. Materials and Methods: We enrolled 435 patients with T2DM using case-control study design. In 253 patients, we used non-overlapping criteria to form groups with/without CKD (defined as GFR<60 ml/min/1.73 m2) according to the duration of T2DM (≤5 years/≥10 years) (n=75 and 178, respectively) and analysed the following 4 polymorphic markers: I/D in ACE, ecNOS4a/4b in NOS3, I/D in APOB and e2/e3/e4 in APOE genes. We then divided 182 patients in groups with/without CKD (n=38 and 144, respectively) regardless of the duration of diabetes and studied pro12ala in PPARG2, rs5219 in KCNJ11, rs12255372 in TCF7L2 and rs13266634 in SLC30A8 genes. Statistical analysis was performed using the X2 test, and data were expressed as odds ratios (ORs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). Values of p <0.05 indicated statistical significance. Results: Four genes were found to have a significant association with CKD occurrence. For the eNOS3 the allele 4a and 4a/4a genotype was associated with a twofold CKD risk (OR=2.2/9.88) and the allele 4b and 4b/4b polymorphism were protective regarding CKD development (OR=0.44/0.45). For APOB I/D, the genotype DD was associated with lower risk of CKD [OR for DD=0.2 (95% CI: 0.05-0.88)]. In the second group, genotype TT of TCF7L2 predisposed to CKD (OR=3.03, 95% CI: 1.07-8.58). For KCNJ11 group genotype AA predisposed to CKD (OR=2.25, 95% CI: 1.02-4.97) compared to the allele G (OR=0,57, 95% CI: 0.34-0.96). Conclusions: In conclusion, our findings indicate a significant role of functional genetic variants associated with genes of endothelial factors (NOS3), lipid metabolism (APOB), and insulin secretion factors (KCNJ11, TCF7L2) in modulating the risk of CKD and their significant involvement in the mechanism of kidney damage in patients with T2DM.
Role of EGR1 in regulation of stimulus-dependent CD44 transcription in B lymphocytes. The immediate-early gene egr-1 encodes a transcription factor (EGR1) that links B-cell antigen receptor (BCR) signals to downstream activation events through the regulation of previously unidentified target genes. Here we identify the gene encoding the lymphocyte homing and migration protein CD44 as a target of EGR1 regulation in B cells. BCR-induced increases in CD44 mRNA expression and transcription levels are shown to occur in EGR1-expressing but not in nonexpressing subclones of the B-cell line WEH1-231. Kinetics of egr- 1 transcription and the appearance of nuclear EGR1 protein precede CD44 induction and occur within 30 min after stimulation in the EGR1-expressing subclone. A single EGR1 binding motif is demonstrated at bp -301 of the human CD44 promoter. Cotransfection of a CD44 promoter-chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter construct with an egr-1 expression vector resulted in a 6.5- to 8.5-fold induction of transcriptional activity relative to an empty expression vector. The EGR1 binding motif was shown to be necessary for stimulus-induced expression of a CD44 promoter-chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter construct in nontransformed B lymphocytes and was required for transactivation by an EGR1 expression vector in a B-cell line. These studies identify EGR1 as an intermediary linking BCR-derived signals to the induction of CD44. The relevance of these molecular events to BCR signal transduction and antigen-stimulated B-cell-mediated immune responses is discussed.
Role of Low-Affinity Nerve Growth Factor Receptor Inhibitory Antibody in Reducing Pain Behavior and Calcitonin Gene-Related Peptide Expression in a Rat Model of Wrist Joint Inflammatory Pain. Purpose: Nerve growth factor (NGF), via the high-affinity receptor, tyrosine kinase A, has been widely reported as a mediator of pain caused by inflammation. A clinical trial has suggested that anti-NGF antibody is effective for pain caused by osteoarthritis of the knee. However, adverse events such as headache (8.9%), upper respiratory tract infection (7.3%), and paresthesia (6.8%) were reported. We hypothesized that inhibition of the low-affinity NGF receptor, p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75NTR), is also effective for joint pain and may reduce side effects. This study examined suppression of pain behavior and expression of pain-inducing neuropeptides such as calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and p75NTR in dorsal root ganglia neurons by a p75NTR inhibitory antibody in a rat model of wrist joint inflammatory pain. Methods: We injected complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) into the wrist joint of rats and used this as a model of inflammatory pain. We applied 10 μL of saline (CFA + saline group; n = 20) or 1, 10, or 50 μL of a p75NTR inhibitory antibody (CFA + p75NTR inhibitory antibody group; n = 40) directly to the inflamed joint in the rats. Mechanical hyperalgesia was measured for 2 weeks using von Frey filaments. We assessed CGRP and p75NTR expression in C8 dorsal root ganglia immunochemically. Adverse events such as loss of weight and/or appetite, constipation, and infection were examined. Results: p75NTR inhibitory antibody reduced mechanical hyperalgesia caused by CFA (p<.05 vs controls) in the rat model (p<.01 vs saline), without any adverse events. We found that 10 and 50 μL of a p75NTR inhibitory antibody were more effective for pain, without a significant difference between doses. CGRP and p75NTR immunoreactivity was upregulated in the CFA + saline groups compared with a control group (p<.01). However, direct p75NTR inhibitory antibody application decreased CGRP and p75NTR expression after wrist inflammation (p<.01). Conclusions: p75NTR inhibition may be a therapeutic target for inflamed joint pain treatment with reduced adverse events.
Role of Phosphodiesterases on the Function of Aryl Hydrocarbon Receptor-Interacting Protein (AIP) in the Pituitary Gland and on the Evaluation of AIP Gene Variants. Familial isolated pituitary adenoma (FIPA) is caused in about 20% of cases by loss-of-function germline mutations in the AIP gene. Patients harboring AIP mutations usually present with somatotropinomas resulting either in gigantism or young-onset acromegaly. AIP encodes for a co-chaperone protein endowed with tumor suppressor properties in somatotroph cells. Among other mechanisms proposed to explain this function, a regulatory effect over the 3′,5′-cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) signaling pathway seems to play a prominent role. In this setting, the well-known interaction between AIP and 2 different isoforms of phosphodiesterases (PDEs), PDE2A3 and PDE4A5, is of particular interest. While the interaction with over-expressed AIP does not seem to affect PDE2A3 function, the reported effect on PDE4A5 is, in contrast, reduced enzymatic activity. In this review, we explore the possible implications of these molecular interactions for the function of somatotroph cells. In particular, we discuss how both PDEs and AIP could act as negative regulators of the cAMP pathway in the pituitary, probably both by shared and independent mechanisms. Moreover, we describe how the evaluation of the AIP-PDE4A5 interaction has proven to be a useful tool for testing AIP mutations, complementing other in silico, in vitro, and in vivo analyses. Improved assessment of the pathogenicity of AIP mutations is indeed paramount to provide adequate guidance for genetic counseling and clinical screening in AIP mutation carriers, which can lead to prospective diagnosis of pituitary adenomas.
Role of Raf-1 kinase in diabetes-induced accelerated apoptosis of retinal capillary cells. Small molecular weight G-proteins serve as fundamental signaling switches that regulate cell fates by coupling receptor activation to downstream effector pathways. H-Ras, a small molecular weight G-protein, in its active form, recruits Raf. Activated Raf via a signaling transduction pathway regulates apoptosis. Our previous studies have shown that H-Ras has an important role in the loss of retinal capillary cells in diabetes. The purpose of this study is to investigate the role of Raf-1 in the development of diabetic retinopathy. Bovine retinal endothelial cells were incubated in 5 mM or 20 mM glucose in the presence of Raf-1 kinase inhibitor (10μM of GW5074), activator (200μM of ZM336374) or mitogen activated protein kinase inhibitor (30μM of PD098059) for five days. Apoptosis of endothelial cells was analyzed by ELISA and activation of Raf-1 and its downstream signaling proteins by determining genes and protein expressions. Inhibition of Raf-1 kinase repressed glucose-induced apoptosis of the cells by 75%, and this was accompanied by attenuation of activation of MAP kinase, ERK-1, nuclear transcriptional factor and caspase-3. In contrast, ZM3316374 further increased glucose-induced apoptosis by 50%, and activated the signaling molecules and caspase 3 by over 30%. Further, PD098059 alone also attenuated glucose-induced apoptosis of retinal endothelial cells. These findings demonstrate that accelerated loss of retinal capillary cells in diabetes is mediated via Raf-1 kinase activation. Modulation of Raf-1 kinase activity could, in part, regulate apoptosis of retinal endothelial cells, which may ultimately contribute to the development of diabetic retinopathy.
Role of signaling pathway of long non-coding RNA growth arrest-specific transcript 5/microRNA-200c-3p/angiotensin converting enzyme 2 in the apoptosis of human lung epithelial cell A549 in acute respiratory distress syndrome. Objective: To investigate whether long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) growth arrest-specific transcript 5 (GAS5)/microRNA-200c-3p/angiotensin converting enzyme 2(ACE2) involved in the regulation of the apoptosis of human lung epithelial cell A549 in acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). Methods: ARDS rat models were established and were divided into control, ARDS, ARDS+ pcDNA and ARDS+ pcDNA-GAS5 groups. Six hours after the establishment of ARDS rat model, arterial blood and lung tissues of the rats from the four groups were collected. The changes of partial pressure of oxygen (PO 2 ) and partial pressure of CO 2 (PCO 2 ) were analyzed and the expression of GAS5 in lung tissue was observed in these groups. Then, A549 cells were divided into control, lipopolysaccharide (LPS), LPS+ pcDNA, LPS+ pcDNA-GAS5, LPS+ pcDNA-GAS5+ pre-NC, LPS+ pcDNA-GAS5+ miR-200c-3p mimic groups. Quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) was conducted to measure lncRNA GAS5, ACE2 and miR-200c-3p levels. RNA immunoprecipitation and RNA pull-down assay were used to detect the combination between GAS5 and miR-200c-3p. Western blotting was used to detect the protein level of ACE2. Flow cytometry was used to observe the apoptosis of A549 cells in those groups. The data between groups were compared by t test. Results: In ARDS rat model, PO 2 value was significantly increased in ARDS+ pcDNA-GAS5 group than that in ARDS+ pcDNA group[(81.5±3.3) vs (57.5±5.1) mmHg, t=4.850, P<0.05], and PCO 2 value was significantly decreased in ARDS+ pcDNA-GAS5 group than that in ARDS+ pcDNA group[(50.6±1.9) vs (64.0±1.9) mmHg, t=5.940, P<0.05]. LncRNA GAS5 level in A549 cells of LPS group decreased significantly than that in control group (0.43±0.01 vs 1.01±0.01, t=0.242, P<0.05). Compared with LPS+ pcDNA group, ACE2 expression increased significantly in LPS+ pcDNA-GAS5 group (0.85±0.04 vs 0.34±0.02, t=1.800, P<0.05). Compared with LPS+ pcDNA-GAS5+ pre-NC group, ACE2 expression decreased significantly in LPS+ pcDNA-GAS5+ miR-200c-3p mimic group (0.62±0.01 vs 0.84±0.02, t=9.440, P<0.05). Compared with control group, the percentage of A549 cell apoptosis promoted significantly in LPS group (25.90±0.61 vs 7.90±0.22, t=0.257, P<0.05). Compared with LPS+ pcDNA group, the percentage of A549 cell apoptosis suppressed significantly in LPS+ pcDNA-GAS5 group (10.50±0.37 vs 26.37±0.45, t=1.760, P<0.05). Compared with LPS+ pcDNA-GAS5+ pre-NC group, the percentage of A549 apoptosis promoted significantly in LPS+ pcDNA-GAS5+ miR-200c-3p mimic group (19.07±0.56 vs 10.87±0.26, t=0.643, P<0.05). Conclusion: In ARDS, down-regulation of lncRNA GAS5 decreases ACE2 expression through increasing miR-200c-3p to promote the apoptosis of A549 cells, thus to promote the progression of ARDS.
Roles and mechanisms of TRPC3 and the PLCγ/PKC/CPI-17 signaling pathway in regulating parturition. The aim of the current study was to investigate the role of phospholipase C (PLC)γ/protein kinase C (PKC)/C-kinase-activated protein phosphatase-1 (CPI-17) signaling pathways in uterine smooth muscle during parturition. Samples of uterine tissue were collected from pregnant patients who underwent a caesarean section for preterm delivery, full-term delivery with labor onset, full-term delivery without labor onset, and from a non-pregnant control group undergoing surgery for cervical intraepithelial neoplasia III. Immunohistochemistry, and western blotting were used to assess the association between TRPC3 levels and parturition and the influence of calcium ion channels. In addition, pregnant mice were used to explore the effect of uterine canonical transient receptor potential 3 (TRPC3) expression on the parturition-triggering mechanism and PLCγ/PKC/CPI-17 signaling pathways. Pregnant mouse uterine smooth muscle cells were cultivated, with and without TRPC3 silencing, and the expression levels of PLCγ, PKC and CPI-17, the upstream and downstream factors of the TRPC3 pathway, were measured in pregnant mouse uterine smooth muscle cells, in order to provide a theoretical basis for the prevention and treatment of premature labor. In the preterm and full-term without labor onset patient groups, the TRPC3 gene expression in the mSMCs was significantly overexpressed when compared with the non-pregnant group (P<0.05); however, TRPC3 expression was not elevated in the full-term with labor onset group, exhibiting no significant difference compared with the non-pregnant group (Pgt;0.05). During pregnancy, compared with the non-pregnant controls, Cav1.2, and Cav3.2 gene expression levels were markedly increased (P<0.05) in mSMCs from the preterm delivery group and the full-term with labor onset group, however were non-significantly increased in the full-term without labor onset group. The level of TRPC3 was highest in the preterm group, while the levels of Cav1.2, Cav3.1 and Cav3.2 were highest in the full-term with labor onset group. In the preterm, LPS-treated preterm and full-term groups, TRPC3, MAPK, ERK1/2, P-ERK, Cav3.2, Cav3.1 and Cav1.2 were all expressed at higher levels than in the unfertilized group. In the LPS-treated preterm group, the levels of TRPC3, MAPK, ERK1/2, P-ERK, Cav3.2, Cav3.1 and Cav1.2 were increased compared with the preterm group. Furthermore, following transfection of small interfering TRPC3 (siTRPC3) into cells, it was demonstrated that the levels of TRPC3, PLCγ, PKC, CPI-17, P-CPI-17, Cav1.2, Cav3.1 and Cav3.2 expression were lower in the LPS siTRPC3 group when compared with that of the LPS-treated untransfected control group.
Runx3/AML2/Cbfa3 regulates early and late chondrocyte differentiation. We studied the expression and function of Runx3 during chondrogenesis and chondrocyte maturation. We found that Runx3 is essential for mediating the early stage of endochondral ossification through cooperation with other Runx family members. Introduction: Runx proteins are spatially and temporally co-expressed during skeletal formation. A cooperative and/or redundant function between these factors was postulated, yet the mechanisms underlying these cooperative effects are unknown. Materials and Methods: Expression patterns of Runx3 transcripts were assessed during mouse embryonic developments and limb bud-derived mesenchymal cell differentiation into mature chondrocytes by real-time RT-PCR. Runx3 protein distribution was also determined by immunohistochemistry in mouse embryos. Runx3 gain and loss of function was performed through overexpression and siRNA knockdown of Runx3 into the limb bud-derived cell line MLB13MYC clone17, respectively. Co-transfection experiments were performed in clone 17 cells using the Runx1 promoter and Runx3 cDNA. Promoter activity was measured by luciferase reporter assay. Results: Both Runx3 isoforms are significantly upregulated at the onset of cartilage mineralization and bone formation in E15.5 mice. This upregulation follows that of Sox9 and is concomitant with that of alkaline phosphatase. Furthermore, Runx3 expression remains high during later stages of embryonic development when the levels of osteocalcin are maximal. We determined the expression patterns of Runx3 during chondrogenesis and chondrocyte maturation using mouse limb bud-derived micromass cultures between days 3 and 21. Whereas Runx3 mRNAs are progressively upregulated between days 3 and 14, it is dramatically downregulated at day 21. Markers of chondrocyte maturation alkaline phosphatase and type X collagen are upregulated and maintained throughout the 21 days of culture. Runx3 role in mediating chondrocyte terminal differentiation through gain and loss of function in MLB13MYC clone17 shows that Runx3 regulates both early and late markers of chondrocyte maturation. Finally, Runx3 transcriptionally inhibits Runx1 expression in chondrocytes. Conclusions: We show a role for Runx3 in mediating stage-specific chondrocyte maturation. Our study clearly suggests that, whereas Runx3 may cooperate with Runx2 to induce chondrocyte terminal differentiation, it inhibits Runx1 expression during late maturation.
SAGE analysis highlights the putative role of underexpression of ribosomal proteins in GH-secreting pituitary adenomas. Background: Although the molecular pathogenesis of pituitary adenomas has been assessed by several different techniques, it still remains partially unclear. Ribosomal proteins (RPs) have been recently related to human tumorigenesis, but they have not yet been evaluated in pituitary tumorigenesis. Objective: The aim of this study was to introduce serial analysis of gene expression (SAGE), a highthroughput method, in pituitary research in order to compare differential gene expression. Methods: Two SAGE cDNA libraries were constructed, one using a pool of mRNA obtained from five GH-secreting pituitary tumors and another from three normal pituitaries. Genes differentially expressed between the libraries were further validated by real-time PCR in 22 GH-secreting pituitary tumors and in 15 normal pituitaries. Results: Computer-generated genomic analysis tools identified 13 722 and 14 993 exclusive genes in normal and adenoma libraries respectively. Both shared 6497 genes, 2188 were underexpressed and 4309 overexpressed in tumoral library. In adenoma library, 33 genes encoding RPs were underexpressed. Among these, RPSA, RPS3, RPS14, and RPS29 were validated by real-time PCR. Conclusion: We report the first SAGE library from normal pituitary tissue and GH-secreting pituitary tumor, which provide quantitative assessment of cellular transcriptome. We also validated some downregulated genes encoding RPs. Altogether, the present data suggest that the underexpression of the studied RP genes possibly collaborates directly or indirectly with other genes to modify cell cycle arrest, DNA repair, and apoptosis, leading to an environment that might have a putative role in the tumorigenesis, introducing new perspectives for further studies on molecular genesis of somatotrophinomas.
SHMT2 promotes cell viability and inhibits ROS-dependent, mitochondrial-mediated apoptosis via the intrinsic signaling pathway in bladder cancer cells. Mitochondrial serine hydroxymethyltransferase (SHMT2) catalyzes the conversion of serine to glycine and concomitantly produces one-carbon units to support cell growth and is upregulated in various cancer cells. SHMT2 knockdown triggers cell apoptosis; however, the detailed mechanism of apoptosis induced by SHMT2 inactivation remains unknown. Here, we demonstrate that SHMT2 supports the proliferation of bladder cancer (BC) cells by maintaining redox homeostasis. SHMT2 knockout decreased the pools of purine and one-carbon units and delayed cell cycle progression in a manner that was rescued by formate, demonstrating that SHMT2-mediated one-carbon units are essential for BC cell proliferation. SHMT2 deficiency promoted the accumulation of intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) by decreasing the NADH/NAD+, NADPH/NADP+, and GSH/GSSG ratios, leading to a loss in mitochondrial membrane potential, release of cytochrome c, translocation of Bcl-2 family protein and activation of caspase-3. Notably, blocking ROS production with the one-carbon donor formate and the ROS scavenger N-acetyl-cysteine (NAC) effectively rescued SHMT2 deficiency-induced cell apoptosis via the intrinsic signaling pathway. Treatment with the SHMT inhibitor SHIN1 resulted in a significant inhibitory effect on cell proliferation and induced cell apoptosis. Formate and NAC rescued SHIN1-induced cell apoptosis. Our findings reveal an important mechanism by which the loss of SHMT2 triggers ROS-dependent, mitochondrial-mediated apoptosis, which gives insight into the link between serine metabolism and cell apoptosis and provides a promising target for BC treatment and drug discovery.
SIRT1 deacetylase activity and the maintenance of protein homeostasis in response to stress: An overview. The present review intends to summarize the, yet preliminary, but very important emerging data underlining the functions exerted by the nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+)-dependent deacetylase SIRT1 on protein homeostasis. The main focus of the discussion is the cooperation between SIRT1 and the heat shock factor 1 (HSF1) responsible for activating the transcription of molecular chaperones, the protein-protective factors that resolve damaged/misfolded and aggregated proteins generated by heat stress or metabolism. SIRT1, a mammalian ortholog of the yeast silent information regulator 2, is a stress activated protein deacetylase that contributes to life-span extension by regulating different cell survival pathways, including replicative senescence, inflammation and resistance to hypoxic and heat stress. Phosphorylation is the major mechanism controlling the level and function of SIRT1 required for normal cell cycle progression and cell survival under stress conditions. Phosphorylated SIRT1 deacetylates and coactivates different substrates, including HSF1. Deacetylated HSF1 binds to the heat shock promoter element found upstream of genes encoding molecular chaperones. Overexpression of SIRT1 in cultured cells also helps them to survive exposure to heat stress. Conversely, its down-regulation accelerates the attenuation of the heat shock response promoting the release of HSF1 from its cognate promoter element. Very recently, in a mouse model for Alzheimer's disease, SIRT1 deacetylase activity was also found activating the transcription of α-secretase, the enzyme responsible for inhibiting the formation of aggregates of neuronal β-amyloid plaques. How SIRT1 activity protects cells from the deleterious effects of damaged/misfolded proteins and the implication of these findings on age-related pathologies are discussed.
SIRT6 overexpression induces apoptosis of nasopharyngeal carcinoma by inhibiting Nf-κB signaling. Background: Previous reports show that SIRT6 serves as a critical modulator of the development of multiple malignancies as well as other disorders. However, its role in nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is unknown. Thus, we elucidated the effects of SIRT6 on the survival of NPC cells, and modulation of cell death. Methods: We found that expression of SIRT6 is downregulated in ten human NPC specimens as well as in the human NPC cell lines, 5-8 F and CNE1, as compared with that in healthy tissues and normal nasopharyngeal NP69 cells. The MTT assay and colony formation assay revealed that upregulation of SIRT6 impaired the proliferation, as well as the survival of 5-8 F and CNE1 cells. The TUNEL assay, annexin V-FITC/propidium iodide, and flow cytometry were performed to detect apoptosis. The results revealed that the expression of SIRT6 resulted in increased apoptosis. Results: Western blotting results showed that SIRT6 overexpression decreased anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 levels, whereas it promoted an increase in pro-apoptotic Bax and cleaved caspase-3 levels. Moreover, NF-κB levels were markedly reduced in cells expressing SIRT6, whereas they were increased in cells transfected with shRNA-SIRT6. Recovery of NF-κB expression was found to counter the suppressive influence of SIRT6 on NPC cell survival, whereas, NF-κB knockdown increased apoptosis of NPC cells. Conclusion: Thus, the findings of our study offer insight into the biological and molecular mechanisms underlying the development of NPC and may lead to the development of new and innovative strategies for the treatment of NPC.
SKI and SMAD4 are essential for IL-21-induced Th17 differentiation. Th17 cells are essential for the pathogenesis of inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. In the presence of TGF-β, the differentiation of Th17 cells can be induced by inflammatory cytokines, especially IL-6, which is mainly produced by antigen presenting cells (APCs); or IL-21, which is derived from T cells. IL-21 is required for IL-6-induced Th17 cell differentiation. However, the key regulators and underlying mechanisms for IL-21-induced Th17 differentiation is still elusive. Here we show that SMAD4 is a key regulator in IL-21-induced Th17 differentiation. SMAD4 deficient naïve T cells can differentiate into Th17 cells in the absence of TGF-β signaling, and these Th17 cells are pathogenic during EAE. SMAD4 represses Rorc mRNA transcription to constrain IL-21-induced Th17 differentiation in the absence of TGF-β signaling. While in the presence of TGF-β, SMAD4 losses its suppressive ability due to the degradation of SKI. Mutation of Y429A or A432E on SMAD4 disrupts the interaction of SKI from SMAD4 and eliminates SMAD4 mediated suppression of Th17 differentiation. SMAD4 is indispensable for SKI binding to Rorc promoter region to regulate Th17 differentiation. Moreover, activin can induce Th17 differentiation in combination with IL-21, and the process is also subjected to the control of SKI and SMAD4. This study therefore elucidates critical mechanism for IL-21-induced Th17 differentiation to indicate SKI and SMAD4 as potential therapeutic targets for treating autoimmune diseases.
SLC/CCL21-mediated anti-tumor responses require IFNγ, MIG/CXCL9 and IP-10/CXCL10. Background: SLC/CCL21, normally expressed in high endothelial venules and in T cell zones of spleen and lymph nodes, strongly attracts T cells and dendritic cells (DC). We have previously shown that SLC/CCL21-mediated anti-tumor responses are accompanied by significant induction of IFNγ and the CXC chemokines, monokine induced by IFNγ (MIG/CXCL9) and IFNγ-inducible protein-10 (IP-10/CXCL10). Results: We assessed the importance of IFNγ, IP-10/CXCL10 and MIG/CXCL9 in SLC/CCL21 therapy. In vivo depletion of IP-10/CXCL10, MIG/CXCL9 or IFNγ significantly reduced the anti-tumor efficacy of SLC/CCL21. Assessment of cytokine production at the tumor site showed an interdependence of IFNγ, MIG/CXCL9 and IP-10/CXCL10; neutralization of any one of these cytokines caused a concomitant decrease in all three cytokines. Similarly, neutralization of any one of these cytokines led to a decrease in the frequency of CXCR3+ve T cells and CD11c+ve DC at the tumor site. Conclusion: These findings indicate that the full potency of SLC/CCL21-mediated anti-tumor responses require in part the induction of IFNγ, MIG/CXCL9 and IP-10/CXCL10.
SNHG12: An LncRNA as a Potential Therapeutic Target and Biomarker for Human Cancer. Limitations in current diagnostic procedures warrant identification of new methodologies to improve diagnoses of cancer patients. In this context, long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) have emerged as stable biomarkers which are expressed abundantly in tumors. Importantly, these can be detected at all stages of tumor development, and thus may provide potential biomarkers and/or therapeutic targets. Recently, we suggested that aberrant levels of lncRNAs can be used to determine the invasive and metastatic potential of tumor cells. Further, direct correlations of lncRNAs with cancer-derived inflammation, metastasis, epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition, and other hallmarks of cancer indicate their potential as biomarkers and targets for cancer. Thus, in this review we have discussed the importance of small nucleolar RNA host gene 12 (SNHG12), a lncRNA, as a potential biomarker for a variety of cancers. A meta-analysis of a large cohort of cancer patients revealed that SNHG12 may also serve as a potential target for cancer-directed interventions due to its involvement in unfolded protein responses, which many tumor cells exploit to both evade immune-mediated attack and enhance the polarization of effector immune cells (e.g., macrophages and T cells). Thus, we propose that SNHG12 may serve as both a biomarker and a druggable therapeutic target with promising clinical potential.
SNMIB/Apollo protects leading-strand telomeres against NHEJ-mediated repair. Progressive telomere attrition or deficiency of the protective shelterin complex elicits a DNA damage response as a result of a cell's inability to distinguish dysfunctional telomeric ends from DNA double-strand breaks. SNMIB/Apollo is a shelterin-associated protein and a member of the SMN1/PSO2 nuclease family that localizes to telomeres through its interaction with TRF2. Here, we generated SNMIB/Apollo knockout mouse embryo fibroblasts (MEFs) to probe the function of SNMIB/Apollo at mammalian telomeres. SNMIB/Apollo null MEFs exhibit an increased incidence of G2 chromatid-type fusions involving telomeres created by leading-strand DNA synthesis, reflective of a failure to protect these telomeres after DNA replication. Mutations within SNMIB/Apollo's conserved nuclease domain failed to suppress this phenotype, suggesting that its nuclease activity is required to protect leading-strand telomeres. SNMIB/Apollo-/- ATM-/- MEFs display robust telomere fusions when Trf2 is depleted, indicating that ATM is dispensable for repair of uncapped telomeres in this setting. Our data implicate the 5′-3′ exonuclease function of SNM1B/Apollo in the generation of 3′ single-stranded overhangs at newly replicated leading-strand telomeres to protect them from engaging the non-homologous end-joining pathway.
SOX4 enables oncogenic survival signals in acute lymphoblastic leukemia. The Sox4 transcription factor mediates early B-cell differentiation. Compared with normal pre-B cells, SOX4 promoter regions in Ph+ ALL cells are significantly hypomethylated. Loss and gain-of-function experiments identified Sox4 as a critical activator of PI3K/AKT and MAPK signaling in ALL cells. ChIP experiments confirmed that SOX4 binds to and transcriptionally activates promoters of multiple components within the PI3K/AKT and MAPK signaling pathways. Cre-mediated deletion of Sox4 had little effect on normal pre-B cells but compromised proliferation and viability of leukemia cells, which was rescued by BCL2L1 and constitutively active AKT and p110 PI3K. Consistent with these findings, high levels of SOX4 expression in ALL cells at the time of diagnosis predicted poor outcome in a pediatric clinical trial (COG P9906). Collectively, these studies identify SOX4 as a central mediator of oncogenic PI3K/AKT and MAPK signaling in ALL.
SOX9 mediates the retinoic acid-induced HES-1 gene expression in human breast cancer cells. We have previously shown that the anti-proliferative effect of retinoic acid in human breast cancer cell line MCF-7 is dependent on HES-1 expression. Here we show that retinoic acid induces HES-1 expression via upregulation of transcription factor SOX9. By expressing a dominant negative form of SOX9, disrupting endogenous SOX9 activity, the retinoic acid-induced HES-1 mRNA expression was inhibited. We found an enhancer regulating HES-1 expression: two SOX9 binding sites upstream of the HES-1 gene that were capable of binding SOX9 in vitro. By performing chromatin immunoprecipitation, we showed that SOX9 binding to the HES-1 enhancer was induced by retinoic acid in vivo. In reporter assays, transfection of a SOX9 expression plasmid increased the activity of the HES-1 enhancer. The enhancer responded to retinoic acid; furthermore, the expression of a dominant negative SOX9 abolished this response. Taken together, we present here a novel transcriptional mechanism in regulating hormonedependent cancer cell proliferation.
SOX9cre1, a cis-acting regulatory element located 1.1 Mb upstream of SOX9, mediates its enhancement through the SHH pathway. SOX9 is a temporal and tissue-specific transcription factor involved in male sexual development and bone formation. Haploinsufficiency of SOX9 is known to cause campomelic dysplasia (CD). CD cases without SOX9 coding region mutations have been described in association with translocations that have breakpoints mapping as far as 932 kb upstream from the gene. These rearrangements suggest that position effects acting from a great distance regulate SOX9 gene expression. Studies of one such case (900 kb upstream to SOX9) have led to the delineation of a potential 2.1 kb cis-acting regulatory element 1.1 Mb upstream of SOX9, termed SOX9cre1. We investigated the role of this putative regulator in SOX9 expression. SOX9cre1 increases the activity of a minimal SOX9 promoter in reporter constructs in a dose-dependent and tissue-specific manner, consistent with an enhancer role. In silico studies identify a putative binding site within SOX9cre1 for GLI1, a downstream mediator of sonic hedgehog (SHH). Furthermore, the stimulation of primary human chondrocyte cells in culture with SHH increases endogenous SOX9 expression 3-fold. Electrophoresis mobility shift assay (EMSA) studies that demonstrate physical interactions between the GLI1 transcription factor and a putative binding site within SOX9cre1, as well as experiments in which reporter constructs are co-transfected with GLI1, suggest a direct interaction between GLI1 and SOX9cre1. GLI1-SOX9cre1 interactions are verified in chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments. These data support a direct molecular link between the Hh signaling pathway and SOX9 regulation, wherein SHH stimulates SOX9 through its mediator GLI1, and are consistent with a mechanism of SOX9 regulation through distal chromatin interactions.
SP1 and SP3 mediate progesterone-dependent induction of the 17beta hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 gene in human endometrium. The opposing actions of estrogen and progesterone during the menstrual cycle regulate the cyclical and predictable endometrial proliferation and differentiation that is required for implantation. Progesterone indirectly stimulates the expression of 17beta hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 (HSD17B2), which catalyzes the conversion of biologically potent estradiol to weakly estrogenic estrone in the endometrial epithelium. We previously demonstrated upregulation of the HSD17B2 gene in human endometrial epithelial cells by factors secreted from endometrial stromal cells in response to progesterone. We investigated the underlying mechanism by which these stroma-derived, progesterone-induced paracrine factors stimulate HSD17B2 expression. Here, we show that transcription factors SP1 and SP3 interact with specific motifs in HSD17B2 promoter to upregulate enzyme expression in human endometrial epithelial cell lines. Conditioned medium (CM) from progestin-treated stromal cells increased levels of SP1 and SP3 in endometrial epithelial cells and induced HSD17B2 mRNA expression. Mithramycin A, an inhibitor of SP1-DNA interaction, reduced epithelial HSD17B2 promoter activity in a dose-dependent manner. Serial deletion and site-directed mutants of the HSD17B2 promoter demonstrated that two overlapping SP1 motifs (nt -82/-65) are essential for induction of promoter activity by CM or overexpression of SP1/SP3. CM markedly enhanced, whereas anti-SP1/SP3 antibodies inhibited, binding of nuclear proteins to this region of the HSD17B2 promoter. In vivo, we demonstrated a significant spatiotemporal association between epithelial SP1/SP3 and HSD17B2 levels in human endometrial biopsies. Taken together, these data suggest that HSD1782 expression in endometrial epithelial cells, and, therefore, estrogen inactivation, is regulated by SP1 and SP3, which are downstream targets of progesterone-dependent paracrine signals originating from endometrial stromal cells.
SPDEF suppresses head and neck squamous cell carcinoma progression by transcriptionally activating NR4A1. SAM pointed domain containing E26 transformation-specific transcription factor (SPDEF) plays dual roles in the initiation and development of human malignancies. However, the biological role of SPDEF in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) remains unclear. In this study, the expression level of SPDEF and its correlation with the clinical parameters of patients with HNSCC were determined using TCGA-HNSC, GSE65858, and our own clinical cohorts. CCK8, colony formation, cell cycle analysis, and a xenograft tumor growth model were used to determine the molecular functions of SPDEF in HNSCC. ChIP-qPCR, dual luciferase reporter assay, and rescue experiments were conducted to explore the potential molecular mechanism of SPDEF in HNSCC. Compared with normal epithelial tissues, SPDEF was significantly downregulated in HNSCC tissues. Patients with HNSCC with low SPDEF mRNA levels exhibited poor clinical outcomes. Restoring SPDEF inhibited HNSCC cell viability and colony formation and induced G0/G1 cell cycle arrest, while silencing SPDEF promoted cell proliferation in vitro. The xenograft tumor growth model showed that tumors with SPDEF overexpression had slower growth rates, smaller volumes, and lower weights. SPDEF could directly bind to the promoter region of NR4A1 and promoted its transcription, inducing the suppression of AKT, MAPK, and NF-κB signaling pathways. Moreover, silencing NR4A1 blocked the suppressive effect of SPDEF in HNSCC cells. Here, we demonstrate that SPDEF acts as a tumor suppressor by transcriptionally activating NR4A1 in HNSCC. Our findings provide novel insights into the molecular mechanism of SPDEF in tumorigenesis and a novel potential therapeutic target for HNSCC.
Selective coexpression of insulin receptor-related receptor (IRR) and TRK in NGF-sensitive neurons. The insulin receptor-related receptor (IRR) has recently been identified as a member of the insulin receptor tyrosine kinase family; however, its endogenous ligand and biological function are still unknown. In contrast to the very widespread pattern of expression of the homologous insulin and IGF- I receptors, IRR demonstrates a very restricted cellular distribution. Using in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry, we now show that the expression of this receptor is selectively concentrated in a subset of neurons where its appearance is closely associated with that of the NGF receptor TRK. IRR and TRK demonstrate synchronized patterns of coexpression in neural crest-derived sensory and sympathetic neurons and in non-neural crest basal forebrain and striatal neurons. Both appear early in the embryonic development of dorsal root and trigeminal neurons and somewhat later, near the time of birth, in sympathetic neurons. Expression of both IRR and TRK appears perinatally in basal forebrain neurons, reaching maximal levels about postnatal day 20. This association is highly selective, since TRK mRNA is not detected anywhere in the developing nervous system in the absence of coordinate IRR expression, and the same is true for IRR expression with respect to TRK. In the adult rat, the majority of TRK-positive sensory neurons still express IRR mRNA, and coexpression in sympathetic and forebrain neurons continues without evidence of diminution. These findings are consistent with a functional linkage of the IRR and TRK receptors in NGF- sensitive neurons.
Selective interactions of human kin17 and RPA proteins with chromatin and the nuclear matrix in a DNA damage- and cell cycle-regulated manner. Several proteins involved in DNA synthesis are part of the so-called 'replication factories' that are anchored on non-chromatin nuclear structures. We report here that human kin17, a nuclear stress-activated protein, associates with both chromatin and non-chromatin nuclear structures in a cell cycle- and DNA damage-dependent manner. After L-mimosine block and withdrawal we observed that kin17 protein was recruited in the nucleus during re-entry and progression through S phase. These results are consistent with a role of kin17 protein in DNA replication. About 50% of the total amount of kin17 protein was detected on nuclear structures and could not be released by detergents. Furthermore, the amount of kin17 protein greatly increased in both G1/S and S phase-arrested cells in fractions containing proteins anchored to nuclear structures. The detection of kin17 protein showed for the first time its preferential assembly within non-chromatin nuclear structures in G1/S and S phase-arrested cells, while the association with these structures was found to be less stable in the G2/M phase, as judged by fractionation of human cells and immunostaining. In asynchronous growing cells, kin17 protein interacted with both chromatin DNA and non-chromatin nuclear structures, while in S phase-arrested cells it interacted mostly with non-chromatin nuclear structures, as judged by DNase I treatment and in vivo UV cross-linking. In the presence of DNA damage in S phase cells, the distribution of kin17 protein became mainly associated with chromosomal DNA, as judged by limited formaldehyde cross-linking of living cells. The physical interaction of kin17 protein with components of the nuclear matrix was confirmed and visualized by indirect immunuofluorescence and immunoelectron microscopy. Our results indicate that, during S phase, a fraction of the human kin17 protein preferentially associates with the nuclear matrix, a fundamentally non-chromatin higher order nuclear structure, and to chromatin DNA in the presence of DNA damage.
Selenium pretreatment alleviated LPS-induced immunological stress via Upregulation of several Selenoprotein encoding genes in Murine RAW264.7 cells. This studywas conducted to profile selenoprotein encoding genes in mouse RAW264.7 cells upon lipopolysaccharide (LPS) challenge and integrate their roles into immunological regulation in response to selenium (Se) pretreatment. LPS was used to develop immunological stress in macrophages. Cells were pretreated with different levels of Se (0, 0.5, 1.0, 1.5, 2.0 μmol Se/L) for 2 h, followed by LPS (100 ng/mL) stimulation for another 3 h. The mRNA expression of 24 selenoprotein encoding genes and 9 inflammation-related genes were investigated. The results showed that LPS (100 ng/mL) effectively induced immunological stress in RAW264.7 cells with induced inflammation cytokines, IL-6 and TNF-α, mRNA expression, and cellular secretion. LPS increased (P< 0.05) mRNA profiles of 9 inflammation-related genes in cells, while short-time Se pretreatment modestly reversed (P < 0.05) the LPS-induced upregulation of 7 genes (COX-2, ICAM-1, IL-1β, IL-6, IL-10, iNOS, and MCP-1) and further increased (P < 0.05) expression of IFN-β and TNF-α in stressed cells. Meanwhile, LPS decreased (P < 0.05) mRNA levels of 18 selenoprotein encoding genes and upregulated mRNA levels of TXNRD1 and TXNRD3 in cells. Se pretreatment recovered (P < 0.05) expression of 3 selenoprotein encoding genes (GPX1, SELENOH, and SELENOW) in a dose-dependent manner and increased (P < 0.05) expression of another 5 selenoprotein encoding genes (SELENOK, SELENOM, SELENOS, SELENOT, and TXNRD2) only at a high level (2.0 μmol Se/L). Taken together, LPS-induced immunological stress in RAW264.7 cells accompanied with the global downregulation of selenoprotein encoding genes and Se pretreatment alleviated immunological stress via upregulation of a subset of selenoprotein encoding genes.
Senescence marker protein 30 protects intestinal epithelial cells against inflammation-induced cell death by enhancing Nrf2 activity. Senescence marker protein 30 (SMP30) is a calcium-binding protein whose expression decreases during senescence. SMP30 deficiency increases susceptibility to cytokine-induced apoptosis in the liver and to radiation-induced apoptosis in the small intestine. Furthermore, colonic epithelial cell death is associated with the severity of colitis. Therefore, in the present study, we investigated the function of SMP30 during intestinal inflammation. In SMP30 deficient mice, colitis was significantly exacerbated as demonstrated by increased mortality (p = 0.001), body weight loss (p = 0.0105 at day 8), rectal bleeding (p = 0.0047 at day 8) and diarrhea (p = 0.0030 at day 8), histological scores (ulcers, p = 0.0002; edema, p = 0.0125; leukocyte infiltration, p = 0.0016) and productions of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1α p = 0.0452; IL-6, p = 0.0074; G-CSF, p = 0.0036). In addition, greater proportions of apoptotic cells and lower levels of anti-apoptotic marker proteins (total PARP-1 and Bcl-2) were observed in the inflamed intestines of SMP30 deficient mice than in wild type controls. In vitro experiments on colonic epithelial cells showed that stable SMP30 expression inhibited but that SMP30 siRNA expression increased TNF-α-induced apoptosis. SMP30 inhibition decreased Nrf2 mRNA expression levels (p < 0.0001), but SMP30 overexpression increased Nrf2 mRNA expression levels (p = 0.0495). The underlying mechanism by which SMP30 protected cells appeared to be by inhibiting Nrf2 ubiquitination and Keap1 expression, and thus enhancing Nrf2 activity. Moreover, SMP30 deficiency increased the incidence of colitis-associated colon cancer as determined by increased mortality (p = 0.0572) and average polyp number (p = 0.0277). Collectively, these findings suggest that SMP30 protects intestinal epithelial cells from apoptosis and this can contribute to amelioration of colitis and colitis-associated colon cancer.
Sequence of the promoter region of the gene for human X-linked 3-phosphoglycerate kinase. We have determined the sequence of an 812-bp BamHI-EcoRI restriction fragment containing the 5' region of the human gene for PGK (3-phosphoglycerate kinase or ATP:3-phospho-d-glycerate 1-phosphotransferase; EC 2.7.2.3). The fragment contains 450 bp 5' to three start points for transcription (located by primer extension and S1 nuclease mapping), a leader sequence 85-94 bp long, the first exon of the gene (65 bp), and part of the first intron. The promoter region is extremely G + C-rich, lacks a TATA box, and has an 8-bp direct repeat. A comparison of the promoter region for PGK with other promoters on the X-chromosome reveals homology with the promoter for HPRT, but not with the operator for factor IX.
Sequences in the Human c-myc P2 Promoter Affect the Elongation and Premature Termination of Transcripts Initiated from the Upstream P1 Promoter. A conditional block to transcription elongation provides one mechanism for controlling the steady-state levels of c-myc RNA in mammalian cells. Although prematurely terminated c-myc RNAs are not detectable in mammalian cells, truncated c-myc RNAs with 3′ ends that map near the end of the first exon are transcribed from human c-myc templates injected into Xenopus oocytes germinal vesicles. A series of linker scanner and deletion mutants within the c-myc P2 promoter was tested in the Xenopus oocyte injection assay to determine the potential contribution of promoter elements to the elongation or premature termination of c-myc transcription. Although this analysis failed to identify sequences in the P2 promoter that significantly affect the elongation or termination of P2-initiated transcripts, our results suggest that sequences within the P2 promoter contribute to the premature termination of transcripts initiated at the upstream P1 promoter. A subset of these sequences is essential for the efficient elongation of P1-initiated transcripts through intrinsic sites of termination at the end of exon 1. These sequences affect P1 elongation when they are downstream of the site of initiation, and we hypothesize that they may be analogous to a class of prokaryotic elements required for antitermination.
Serine/threonine protein kinase STK16. STK16 (Ser/Thr kinase 16, also known as Krct/PKL12/MPSK1/TSF-1) is a myristoylated and palmitoylated Ser/Thr protein kinase that is ubiquitously expressed and conserved among all eukaryotes. STK16 is distantly related to the other kinases and belongs to the NAK kinase family that has an atypical activation loop architecture. As a membrane-associated protein that is primarily localized to the Golgi, STK16 has been shown to participate in the TGF-β signaling pathway, TGN protein secretion and sorting, as well as cell cycle and Golgi assembly regulation. This review aims to provide a comprehensive summary of the progress made in recent research about STK16, ranging from its distribution, molecular characterization, post-translational modification (fatty acylation and phosphorylation), interactors (GlcNAcK/DRG1/MAL2/Actin/WDR1), and related functions. As a relatively underexplored kinase, more studies are encouraged to unravel its regulation mechanisms and cellular functions.
Serum-inducible factors binding to an activating transcription factor motif regulate transcription of the Id2A promoter during myogenic differentiation. Expression of Id, a dominant negative regulator of helix-loop-helix transcription factors, is tightly regulated during cellular differentiation. In this study, we have defined the sequences responsible for the transcriptional regulation of the human Id2A gene. 5' deletion and site- specific mutation analyses of the Id2A promoter showed that both an Sp-1 site and an activating transcription factor (ATF)-like site (referred to as IdATF sites) are required for expression in C2 cells, whereas these sites are not essential for the expression in nonmuscle cells, including HeLa and 10T 1/2 cells. Gel shift assays revealed nuclear factors with specific binding to IdATF sites in both C2 and HeLa cells, which are efficiently competed by either legitimate ATF- or AP-1 binding sites. DNA binding activity to IdATF sites was clearly decreased during C2 cell differentiation and rapidly reactivated by treatment with either phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate or serum, which correlated with the induction of endogenous Id2A mRNA expression. In addition, we show that overexpression of the catalytic domain of protein kinase C leads to the activation of the Id2A promoter through IdATF sites in C2 cells. These results suggest a model in which down- modulation of IdATF site binding activity by mitogen depletion contributes to the down-regulation of Id2A gene expression that is essential for myogenic differentiation.
Set1/COMPASS and mediator are repurposed to promote epigenetic transcriptional memory. In yeast and humans, previous experiences can lead to epigenetic transcriptional memory: repressed genes that exhibit mitotically heritable changes in chromatin structure and promoter recruitment of poised RNA polymerase II preinitiation complex (RNAPII PIC), which enhances future reactivation. Here, we show that INO1 memory in yeast is initiated by binding of the Sfl1 transcription factor to the cis-acting Memory Recruitment Sequence, targeting INO1 to the nuclear periphery. Memory requires a remodeled form of the Set1/COMPASS methyltransferase lacking Spp1, which dimethylates histone H3 lysine 4 (H3K4me2). H3K4me2 recruits the SET3C complex, which plays an essential role in maintaining this mark. Finally, while active INO1 is associated with Cdk8- Mediator, during memory, Cdk8+ Mediator recruits poised RNAPII PIC lacking the Kin28 CTD kinase. Aspects of this mechanism are generalizable to yeast and conserved in human cells. Thus, COMPASS and Mediator are repurposed to promote epigenetic transcriptional poising by a highly conserved mechanism.
Short AIP1 (ASK1-Interacting Protein-1) Isoform Localizes to the Mitochondria and Promotes Vascular Dysfunction. OBJECTIVE: Vascular endothelial cells (ECs) normally maintain vascular homeostasis and are regulated by proinflammatory cytokines and reactive oxygen species. A human genome-wide association study identified that AIP1 (ASK1 [apoptosis signal-regulating kinase 1]-interacting protein-1; also identified as DAB2IP) gene variants confer susceptibility to cardiovascular disease, but the underlying mechanism is unknown. Approach and Results: We detected a normal AIP1 form (named AIP1A) in the healthy aorta, but a shorter form of AIP1 (named AIP1B) was found in diseased aortae that contained atherosclerotic plaques and graft arteriosclerosis. AIP1B transcription in resting ECs was suppressed through epigenetic inhibition by RIF1 (Rap1 [ras-related protein 1]-interacting factor 1)/H3K9 (histone H3 lysine 9) methyltransferase-mediated H3K9 trimethylation, and this inhibition was released by proinflammatory cytokines. AIP1A, but not AIP1B, was downregulated by proteolytic degradation through a Smurf1 (SMAD [suppressor of mothers against decapentaplegic miscellaneous] ubiquitylation regulatory factor 1)-dependent pathway in ECs under inflammation. Therefore, AIP1B was the major form present during inflammatory conditions. AIP1B, which lacks the N-terminal pleckstrin homology domain of AIP1A, localized to the mitochondria and augmented TNFα (tumor necrosis factor alpha)-induced mitochondrial reactive oxygen species generation and EC activation. AIP1B-ECTG (EC-specific AIP1B transgenic) mice exhibited augmented reactive oxygen species production, EC activation, and neointima formation in vascular remodeling models. CONCLUSIONS: Our current study suggests that a shift from anti-inflammatory AIP1A to proinflammatory AIP1B during chronic inflammation plays a key role in inflammatory vascular diseases.
Signaling Pathway of Taurine-Induced Upregulation of TXNIP. Taurine, a sulfur-containing β-amino acid, is present at high concentrations in mammalian tissues and plays an important role in several essential biological processes. However, the genetic mechanisms involved in these physiological processes associated with taurine remain unclear. In this study, we investigated the regulatory mechanism underlying the taurine-induced transcriptional enhancement of the thioredoxin-interacting protein (TXNIP). The results showed that taurine significantly increased the luciferase activity of the human TXNIP promoter. Further, deletion analysis of the TXNIP promoter showed that taurine induced luciferase activity only in the TXNIP promoter region (+200 to +218). Furthermore, by employing a bioinformatic analysis using the TRANSFAC database, we focused on Tst-1 and Ets-1 as candidates involved in taurine-induced transcription and found that the mutation in the Ets-1 sequence did not enhance transcriptional activity by taurine. Additionally, chromatin immunoprecipitation assays indicated that the binding of Ets-1 to the TXNIP promoter region was enhanced by taurine. Taurine also increased the levels of phosphorylated Ets-1, indicating activation of Ets-1 pathway by taurine. Moreover, an ERK cascade inhibitor significantly suppressed the taurine-induced increase in TXNIP mRNA levels and transcriptional enhancement of TXNIP. These results suggest that taurine enhances TXNIP expression by activating transcription factor Ets-1 via the ERK cascade.
Silencing of transcription of the human luteinizing hormone receptor gene by histone deacetylase-mSin3A complex. Modification of chromatin structure by histone acetylases and deacetylases is an important mechanism in modulation of eukaryotic gene transcription. The present study investigated regulation of the human luteinizing hormone receptor (hLHR) gene by histone deacetylases. Inhibition of histone deacetylases (HDACs) by trichostatin A (TSA) increased hLHR promoter activity by 40-fold in JAR cells and markedly elevated endogenous hLHR mRNA levels. Acetylated histones H3 and H4 accumulated in TSA-treated cells and associated predominantly with the hLHR promoter. Furthermore, TSA significantly enhanced the recruitment of RNA polymerase II to the promoter. One of the two Sp1 sites essential for basal promoter activity was identified as critical for the TSA effect, but the binding of Sp1/Sp3 to this site remained unchanged in the absence or presence of TSA. A multiprotein complex was recruited to the hLHR promoter via interaction with Sp1 and Sp3, in which HDAC1 and HDAC2 were docked directly to Sp1-bound DNA and indirectly to Sp3-bound DNA through RbAp48, while mSin3A interacted with both HDACs. HDAC1 and HDAC2 were shown to potently repress the hLHR gene transcription, and mSin3A potentiated the inhibition mediated by HDAC1. Our studies have demonstrated that the HDAC-mSin3A complex has an important role in the regulation of hLHR gene transcription by interaction with Sp1/Sp3 and by region-specific changes in histone acetylation and polymerase II recruitment within the hLHR promoter.
Single cell analysis reveals the stochastic phase of reprogramming to pluripotency is an ordered probabilistic process. Despite years of research, the reprogramming of human somatic cells to pluripotency remains a slow, inefficient process, and a detailed mechanistic understanding of reprogramming remains elusive. Current models suggest reprogramming to pluripotency occurs in two-phases: a prolonged stochastic phase followed by a rapid deterministic phase. In this paradigm, the early stochastic phase is marked by the random and gradual expression of pluripotency genes and is thought to be a major rate-limiting step in the successful generation of induced Pluripotent Stem Cells (iPSCs). Recent evidence suggests that the epigenetic landscape of the somatic cell is gradually reset during a period known as the stochastic phase, but it is known neither how this occurs nor what rate-limiting steps control progress through the stochastic phase. A precise understanding of gene expression dynamics in the stochastic phase is required in order to answer these questions. Moreover, a precise model of this complex process will enable the measurement and mechanistic dissection of treatments that enhance the rate or efficiency of reprogramming to pluripotency. Here we use single-cell transcript profiling, FACS and mathematical modeling to show that the stochastic phase is an ordered probabilistic process with independent genespecific dynamics. We also show that partially reprogrammed cells infected with OSKM follow two trajectories: a productive trajectory toward increasingly ESC-like expression profiles or an alternative trajectory leading away from both the fibroblast and ESC state. These two pathways are distinguished by the coordinated expression of a small group of chromatin modifiers in the productive trajectory, supporting the notion that chromatin remodeling is essential for successful reprogramming. These are the first results to show that the stochastic phase of reprogramming in human fibroblasts is an ordered, probabilistic process with gene-specific dynamics and to provide a precise mathematical framework describing the dynamics of pluripotency gene expression during reprogramming by OSKM.
Single-cell sequencing unveils distinct immune microenvironments with CCR6-CCL20 crosstalk in human chronic pancreatitis. OBJECTIVE: Chronic pancreatitis (CP) is a potentially fatal disease of the exocrine pancreas, with no specific or effective approved therapies. Due to difficulty in accessing pancreas tissues, little is known about local immune responses or pathogenesis in human CP. We sought to characterise pancreatic immune responses using tissues derived from patients with different aetiologies of CP and non-CP organ donors in order to identify key signalling molecules associated with human CP. DESIGN: We performed single-cell level cellular indexing of transcriptomes and epitopes by sequencing and T-cell receptor (TCR) sequencing of pancreatic immune cells isolated from organ donors, hereditary and idiopathic patients with CP who underwent total pancreatectomy. We validated gene expression data by performing flow cytometry and functional assays in a second patient with CP cohort. RESULTS: Deep single-cell sequencing revealed distinct immune characteristics and significantly enriched CCR6+ CD4+ T cells in hereditary compared with idiopathic CP. In hereditary CP, a reduction in T-cell clonality was observed due to the increased CD4+ T (Th) cells that replaced tissue-resident CD8+ T cells. Shared TCR clonotype analysis among T-cell lineages also unveiled unique interactions between CCR6+ Th and Th1 subsets, and TCR clustering analysis showed unique common antigen binding motifs in hereditary CP. In addition, we observed a significant upregulation of the CCR6 ligand (CCL20) expression among monocytes in hereditary CP as compared with those in idiopathic CP. The functional significance of CCR6 expression in CD4+ T cells was confirmed by flow cytometry and chemotaxis assay. CONCLUSION: Single-cell sequencing with pancreatic immune cells in human CP highlights pancreas-specific immune crosstalk through the CCR6-CCL20 axis, a signalling pathway that might be leveraged as a potential future target in human hereditary CP.
Slicing and dicing viruses: antiviral RNA interference in mammals. To protect against the harmful consequences of viral infections, organisms are equipped with sophisticated antiviral mechanisms, including cell-intrinsic means to restrict viral replication and propagation. Plant and invertebrate cells utilise mostly RNA interference (RNAi), an RNA-based mechanism, for cell-intrinsic immunity to viruses while vertebrates rely on the protein-based interferon (IFN)-driven innate immune system for the same purpose. The RNAi machinery is conserved in vertebrate cells, yet whether antiviral RNAi is still active in mammals and functionally relevant to mammalian antiviral defence is intensely debated. Here, we discuss cellular and viral factors that impact on antiviral RNAi and the contexts in which this system might be at play in mammalian resistance to viral infection.
Smad expression in human atherosclerotic lesions: Evidence for impaired TGF-β/Smad signaling in smooth muscle cells of fibrofatty lesions. Objective - Transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β) has been implicated in the pathogenesis of human atherosclerosis but its actions during lesion progression are poorly understood. Smad2, Smad3, and Smad4 proteins are signaling molecules by which TGF-β modulates gene transcription. Our objective was to define the actions of TGF-β during lesion progression in humans by examining the expression of Smads in relation to TGF-β-mediated responses. Methods and Results - Immunohistochemistry and reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction demonstrated Smad2, Smad3, and Smad4 expression in macrophages of fibrofatty lesions and their upregulation after differentiation of monocytes to macrophages. The major Smad splice variants expressed by the macrophages were those that are transcriptionally most active. Macrophages also expressed cyclin inhibitors whose expression is induced via Smad proteins. The cytoplasmic location of p21Waf1 suggests it may protect macrophages from apoptosis. Smooth muscle cells (SMCs) within the fibrofatty lesions did not express the Smad proteins or the cyclin inhibitors. SMCs of fibrous plaques expressed all 3 Smad proteins. Conclusions - In human atherosclerotic lesions, the actions of TGF-β appear restricted to SMCs in fibrous plaques and macrophages in fatty streaks/fibrofatty lesions. The lack of key TGF-β signaling components in SMCs of fibrofatty lesions indicates impaired ability of these cells to initiate TGF-β-mediated Smad-dependent transcriptional responses.
Sox9 transcriptionally regulates Wnt signaling in intestinal epithelial stem cells in hypomethylated crypts in the diabetic state. Background: Distinctive structures called crypts harbor intestinal epithelial stem cells (IESCs) which generate progenitor and terminally differentiated cells in the intestinal epithelium. Mammalian IESCs and their daughter cells require the participation of DNA methylation and the transcription factor Sox9 for proliferation and differentiation. However, the association between Sox9 and DNA methylation in this process remains elusive. Methods: The DNA methylation of small intestinal epithelial crypts in db/db mice was detected via combining methylated DNA immunoprecipitation with microarray hybridization. DNA methylation of Sox9 promoter in crypts and IESCs was validated using bisulfite sequence analysis. The target sequence of the transcription factor Sox9 in IESCs was investigated via chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) combined with deep sequencing (ChIP-seq). Results: Increased Sox9 expression is accompanied by the loss of methylation in its promoter in IESCs. Sox9 targets the enhancers of the Wnt signaling pathway-related genes. Sox9 predominantly acts as a transcriptional activator at proximal enhancers of Wnt4, Tab2, Sox4, and Fzd8, but also functions as a potential transcriptional inhibitor at a distant enhancer of Cdk1. Lack of Sox9 transcriptional activation in specific repressors of the Wnt signaling pathway leads to the loss of intrinsic inhibitory action and ultimately produces overactivation of this pathway in db/db mice. Conclusions: Our study sheds light on the connections among DNA methylation, transcription factor modulation, and Wnt signaling in IESCs in the diabetic state. Hypomethylation in the Sox9 promoter is correlated to increased Sox9 expression in db/db IESCs. Although there is increased expression of Sox9 in db/db IESCs, the loss of Sox9 transcriptional activation in specific repressors of the Wnt signaling pathway might result in abnormalities in this pathway.
Stability of gene expression by primary bronchial epithelial cells over increasing passage number. Background: An increasing number of studies using primary human bronchial epithelial cells (BECs) have reported intrinsic differences in the expression of several genes between cells from asthmatic and non-asthmatic donors. The stability of gene expression by primary BECs with increasing cell passage number has not been well characterized. Methods: To determine if expression by primary BECs from asthmatic and non-asthmatic children of selected genes associated with airway remodeling, innate immune response, immunomodulatory factors, and markers of differentiated airway epithelium, are stable over increasing cell passage number, we studied gene expression patterns in passages 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 BECs from asthmatic (n=6) and healthy (n=6) subjects that were differentiated at an air-liquid interface. RNA was harvested from BECs and RT-PCR was performed for TGFβ1, TGFβ2, activin A, FSTL3, MUC5AC, TSLP, IL-33, CXCL10, IFIH1, p63, KT5, TUBB4A, TJP1, OCLN, and FOXJ1. Results: Expression of TGFβ1, TGFβ2, activin A, FSTL3, MUC5AC, CXCL10, IFIH1, p63, KT5, TUBB4A, TJP1, OCLN, and FOXJ1 by primary BECs from asthmatic and healthy children was stable with no significant differences between passages 1, 2 and 3; however, gene expression at cell passages 4 and 5 was significantly greater and more variable compared to passage 1 BECs for many of these genes. IL-33 and FOXJ1 expression was also stable between passages 1 through 3, however, expression at passages 4 and 5 was significantly lower than by passage 1 BECs. TSLP, p63, and KRT5 expression was stable across BEC passages 1 through 5 for both asthmatic and healthy BECs. Conclusions: These observations illustrate the importance of using BECs from passage ≤3 when studying gene expression by asthmatic and non-asthmatic primary BECs and characterizing the expression pattern across increasing cell passage number for each new gene studied, as beyond passage 3 genes expressed by primary BECs appear to less accurately model in vivo airway epithelial gene expression.
Stat1 expression is not sufficient to regulate the interferon signaling pathway in cellular immortalization. DNA hypermethylation in gene promoters is an epigenetic mechanism regulating gene expression in cellular immortalization, an important step in carcinogenesis. Previously, we studied the genes dysregulated during immortalization using spontaneously immortalized fibroblasts from patients with Li-Fraumeni syndrome (LFS), who carry a germline mutation in the tumor suppressor gene p53. We found that multiple interferon (IFN) signaling pathway genes were regulated by epigenetic silencing. In this study we focused on a key regulator of that pathway, the signal transducer and transcription activator 1 (Stat1) gene. Although Stat1 is downregulated after cellular immortalization and upregulated in immortal MDAH041 cells after 5-aza-2′-deoxycytidine (5-aza-dC) treatment, we detected no methylation of the Stat1 promoter region in these cells before or after immortalization. To analyze the function of Stat1 in immortalization, we expressed Stat1 in immortal MDAH041 cells by stable infection, expecting to induce IFN-regulated genes or cellular senescence or both. However, the overexpression of Stat1 alone was not sufficient to repress the proliferation rate of immortal MDAH041 cells or induce senescence in immortal MDAH041 cells. We concluded that factor(s) additional to Stat1 (whether IFN dependent or not) are required for the immortalization of LFS fibroblasts.
Stearoyl-CoA desaturase inhibits ATP-binding cassette transporter A1-mediated cholesterol efflux and modulates membrane domain structure. Liver X receptor/retinoid X receptor (LXR/RXR) transcription factors have been found to induce a number of genes involved in the regulation of cellular cholesterol efflux, including the ATP-binding cassette transporter A1 (ABCA1), which mediates the active efflux of cellular cholesterol and phospholipids to extracellular acceptors, such as apolipoprotein A-I (apoA-I). In a screen for macrophage LXR/RXR target genes, we identified stearoyl-CoA desaturases 1 and 2 (Scd1 and Scd2), and subsequently tested the hypothesis that SCD activity might modulate cellular cholesterol efflux. In HEK 293 cells co-transfection of ABCA1 with either SCD1 or SCD2 inhibited ABCA1-mediated cholesterol efflux but not phospholipid efflux. In Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells with moderate stable overexpression of SCD1, cholesterol efflux to apoA-I was inhibited by 73%, whereas phospholipid efflux and ABCA1 protein levels were unchanged. In contrast, cholesterol efflux to HDL2, which is not dependent on ABCA1, was increased 2-fold in CHO-SCD1 cells. The effect of SCD on cholesterol efflux to apoA-I was independent of acyl-CoA:cholesterol acyltransferase (ACAT) activity. SCD activity led to an increased content of plasma membrane monounsaturated fatty acids (18:1) at the expense of saturated fatty acids (18:0). As shown by confocal microscopy, SCD overexpression led to a decrease of Triton X-100-resistant domains in the plasma membrane, indicating a decrease in membrane-ordered regions. The data suggest that SCD changes membrane organization and depletes a specific pool of membrane cholesterol supporting ABCA1-mediated efflux, whereas increasing availability of cholesterol for passive efflux by HDL2. ABCA1-mediated cholesterol and phospholipid efflux may be uncoupled in pathological states associated with high SCD activity, as in hyperinsulinemic obese mice, or in animals treated with LXR activators.
Structural analysis of the carboxy terminal PH domain of pleckstrin bound to D-myo-inositol 1,2,3,5,6-pentakisphosphate. Background. Pleckstrin homology (PH) domains are one of the most prevalent domains in the human proteome and represent the major phosphoinositide-binding module. These domains are often found in signaling proteins and function predominately by targeting their host proteins to the cell membrane. Inositol phosphates, which are structurally similar to phosphoinositides, are not only known to play a role as signaling molecules but are also capable of being bound by PH domains. Results. In the work presented here it is shown that the addition of commercial myo-inositol hexakisphosphate (IP6) inhibited the binding of the carboxy terminal PH domain of pleckstrin (C-PH) to phosphatidylinositol 3,4-bisphosphate with an IC50 of 7.5 μM. In an attempt to characterize this binding structurally, C-PH was crystallized in the presence of IP6 and the structure was determined to 1.35 Å. Examination of the resulting electron density unexpectedly revealed the bound ligand to be D-myo-inositol 1,2,3,5,6-pentakisphosphate. Conclusion. The discovery of D-myo-inositol 1,2,3,5,6-pentakisphosphate in the crystal structure suggests that the inhibitory effects observed in the binding studies may be due to this ligand rather than IP6. Analysis of the protein-ligand interaction demonstrated that this myo-inositol pentakisphosphate isomer interacts specifically with protein residues known to be involved in phosphoinositide binding. In addition to this, a structural alignment of other PH domains bound to inositol phosphates containing either four or five phosphate groups revealed that the majority of phosphate groups occupy conserved locations in the binding pockets of PH domains. These findings, taken together with other recently reported studies suggest that myo-inositol pentakisphosphates could act to regulate PH domain-phosphoinositide interactions by directly competing for binding, thus playing an important role as signaling molecules.
Structural visualization of key steps in human transcription initiation. Eukaryotic transcription initiation requires the assembly of general transcription factors into a pre-initiation complex that ensures the accurate loading of RNA polymerase II (Pol II) at the transcription start site. The molecular mechanism and function of this assembly have remained elusive due to lack of structural information. Here we have used an in vitro reconstituted system to study the stepwise assembly of human TBP, TFIIA, TFIIB, Pol II, TFIIF, TFIIE and TFIIH onto promoter DNA using cryo-electron microscopy. Our structural analyses provide pseudo-atomic models at various stages of transcription initiation that illuminate critical molecular interactions, including how TFIIF engages Pol II and promoter DNA to stabilize both the closed pre-initiation complex and the open-promoter complex, and to regulate start-initiation complexes, combined with the localization of the TFIIH helicases XPD and XPB, support a DNA translocation model of XPB and explain its essential role in promoter opening.
Structure of noncoding RNA is a determinant of function of RNA binding proteins in transcriptional regulation. The majority of the noncoding regions of mammalian genomes have been found to be transcribed to generate noncoding RNAs (ncRNAs), resulting in intense interest in their biological roles. During the past decade, numerous ncRNAs and aptamers have been identified as regulators of transcription. 6S RNA, first described as a ncRNA in E. coli, mimics an open promoter structure, which has a large bulge with two hairpin/stalk structures that regulate transcription through interactions with RNA polymerase. B2 RNA, which has stem-loops and unstructured single-stranded regions, represses transcription of mRNA in response to various stresses, including heat shock in mouse cells. The interaction of TLS (translocated in liposarcoma) with CBP/p300 was induced by ncRNAs that bind to TLS, and this in turn results in inhibition of CBP/p300 histone acetyltransferase (HAT) activity in human cells. Transcription regulator EWS (Ewing's sarcoma), which is highly related to TLS, and TLS specifically bind to G-quadruplex structures in vitro. The carboxy terminus containing the Arg-Gly-Gly (RGG) repeat domains in these proteins are necessary for cis-repression of transcription activation and HAT activity by the N-terminal glutamine-rich domain. Especially, the RGG domain in the carboxy terminus of EWS is important for the G-quadruplex specific binding. Together, these data suggest that functions of EWS and TLS are modulated by specific structures of ncRNAs.
Structure of ribosomal genes of mammalian cells in situ. The structural and functional organization of ribosomal genes was investigated in situ in human circulating lymphocytes and a human tumour cell line, TG cells. Stereo-pair electron micrographs revealed that this ribosomal chromatin is not structured into nucleosomes, but composed of completely extended filaments, 2-3 nm thick. Despite its homogeneous morphological structure only a small portion of ribosomal chromatin present in the dense fibrillar component is transcriptionally active. This was demonstrated in TG cells by exclusive autoradiographic labelling on serial sections of the dense fibrillar component with 3H-uridine and by the distribution of RNase-gold particles in all the ribonucleoprotein (RNP) structures but not in the fibrillar centres. The extended, non-nucleosomal configuration of both transcriptionally inactive and active ribosomal chromatin could be explained by the peculiar protein composition of this chromatin. Staining with the acrolein-silvermethenamine technique for basic proteins indicated that all the completely extended ribosomal chromatin is devoid of histones, even after inactivation of transcription by actinomycin D. Stereo-electron-microscopical visualisation of the Ag-NOR proteins revealed a thread-like structural organization of these proteins with a spatial distribution superimposable on that of the ribosomal chromatin filaments.
Structure of the essential MTERF4:NSUN4 protein complex reveals how an MTERF protein collaborates to facilitate rRNA modification. MTERF4 is the first MTERF family member shown to bind RNA and plays an essential role as a regulator of ribosomal biogenesis in mammalian mitochondria. It forms a complex with the rRNA methyltransferase NSUN4 and recruits it to the large ribosomal subunit. In this article, we characterize the interaction between both proteins, demonstrate that MTERF4 strongly stimulates the specificity of NSUN4 during in vitro methylation experiments, and present the 2.0 Å resolution crystal structure of the MTERF4:NSUN4 protein complex, lacking 48 residues of the MTERF4 C-terminal acidic tail, bound to S-adenosyl-L-methionine, thus revealing the nature of the interaction between both proteins and the structural conservation of the most divergent of the human MTERF family members. Moreover, the structure suggests a model for RNA binding by the MTERF4:NSUN4 complex, providing insight into the mechanism by which an MTERF family member facilitates rRNA methylation.
Superoxide dismutase delays neuronal apoptosis: A role for reactive oxygen species in programmed neuronal death. Sympathetic neurons in culture die by apoptosis when deprived of nerve growth factor (NGF). We used this model of programmed cell death to study the mechanisms that mediate neuronal apoptosis. Cultured sympathetic neurons were injected with copper/zinc superoxide dismutase protein (SOD) or with an expression vector containing an SOD cDNA. In both cases apoptosis was delayed when the neurons were deprived of NGF. The delay was similar to that seen when a bcl-2 expression vector was injected. SOD, injected 8 hr after NGF deprivation, provided no protection, indicating that superoxide production may occur early in response to trophic factor deprivation. We have demonstrated, with a redox-sensitive dye, an increase in reactive oxygen species (ROS) that peaked at 3 hr after sympathetic neurons were deprived of NGF. If NGF was added back to the culture medium after the period of peak ROS generation, apoptosis was completely prevented, suggesting that ROS production serves as an early signal, rather than a toxic agent, to mediate apoptosis.
Superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles alter expression of obesity and T2D-associated risk genes in human adipocytes. Adipocytes hypertrophy is the main cause of obesity and its affliction such as type 2 diabetes (T2D). Since superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles (SPIONs) are used for a wide range of biomedical/medical applications, we aimed to study the effect of SPIONs on 22 and 29 risk genes (Based on gene wide association studies) for obesity and T2D in human adipocytes. The mRNA expression of lipid and glucose metabolism genes was changed upon the treatment of human primary adipocytes with SPIONs. mRNA of GULP1, SLC30A8, NEGR1, SEC16B, MTCH2, MAF, MC4R, and TMEM195 were severely induced, whereas INSIG2, NAMPT, MTMR9, PFKP, KCTD15, LPL and GNPDA2 were down-regulated upon SPIONs stimulation. Since SEC16B gene assist the phagocytosis of apoptotic cells and this gene were highly expressed upon SPIONs treatment in adipocytes, it is logic to assume that SPIONs may play a crucial role in this direction, which requires more consideration in the future.
Synonymous variants associated with Alzheimer disease in multiplex families. Objective Synonymous variants can lead to disease; nevertheless, the majority of sequencing studies conducted in Alzheimer disease (AD) only assessed coding variation. Methods To detect synonymous variants modulating AD risk, we conducted a whole-genome sequencing study on 67 Caribbean Hispanic (CH) families multiply affected by AD. Identified disease-associated variants were further assessed in an independent cohort of CHs, expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) data, brain autopsy data, and functional experiments. Results Rare synonymous variants in 4 genes (CDH23, SLC9A3R1, RHBDD2, and ITIH2) segregated with AD status in multiplex families and had a significantly higher frequency in these families compared with reference populations of similar ancestry. In comparison to subjects without dementia, expression of CDH23 (β = 0.53, p = 0.006) and SLC9A3R1 (β = 0.50, p = 0.02) was increased, and expression of RHBDD2 (β = -0.70, p = 0.02) decreased in individuals with AD at death. In line with this finding, increased expression of CDH23 (β = 0.26 ± 0.08, p = 4.9E-4) and decreased expression of RHBDD2 (β = -0.60 ± 0.12, p = 5.5E-7) were related to brain amyloid load (p = 0.0025). SLC9A3R1 expression was associated with burden of TDP43 pathology (β = 0.58 ± 0.17, p = 5.9E-4). Using eQTL data, the CDH23 variant was in linkage disequilibrium with variants modulating CDH23 expression levels (top single nucleotide polymorphism: rs11000035, p = 4.85E-6, D’ = 1.0). Using minigene splicing assays, the CDH23 and SLC9A3R1 variants affected splicing efficiency. Conclusions These findings suggest that CDH23, SLC9A3R1, RHBDD2, and possibly ITIH2, which are involved in synaptic function, the glutamatergic system, and innate immunity, contribute to AD etiology. In addition, this study supports the notion that synonymous variants contribute to AD risk and that comprehensive scrutinization of this type of genetic variation is warranted and critical.
Systematical identification of cell-specificity of CTCF-gene binding based on epigenetic modifications. The CCCTC-binding factor (CTCF) mediates transcriptional regulation and implicates epigenetic modifications in cancers. However, the systematically unveiling inverse regulatory relationship between CTCF and epigenetic modifications still remains unclear, especially the mechanism by which histone modification mediates CTCF binding. Here, we developed a systematic approach to investigate how epigenetic changes affect CTCF binding. Through integration analysis of CTCF binding in 30 cell lines, we concluded that CTCF generally binds with higher intensity in normal cell lines than that in cancers, and higher intensity in genome regions closed to transcription start sites. To facilitate the better understanding of their associations, we constructed linear mixed-effect models to analyze the effects of the epigenetic modifications on CTCF binding in four cancer cell lines and six normal cell lines, and identified seven epigenetic modifications as potential epigenetic patterns that influence CTCF binding intensity in promoter regions and six epigenetic modifications in enhancer regions. Further analysis of the effects in different locations revealed that the epigenetic regulation of CTCF binding was location-specific and cancer cell line-specific. Moreover, H3K4me2 and H3K9ac showed the potential association with immune regulation of disease. Taken together, our method can contribute to improve the understanding of the epigenetic regulation of CTCF binding and provide potential therapeutic targets for treating tumors associated with CTCF.
T cell lineage choice and differentiation in the absence of the RNase III enzyme Dicer. The ribonuclease III enzyme Dicer is essential for the processing of micro-RNAs (miRNAs) and small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) from double-stranded RNA precursors. miRNAs and siRNAs regulate chromatin structure, gene transcription, mRNA stability, and translation in a wide range of organisms. To provide a model system to explore the role of Dicer-generated RNAs in the differentiation of mammalian cells in vivo, we have generated a conditional Dicer allele. Deletion of Dicer at an early stage of T cell development compromised the survival of αβ lineage cells, whereas the numbers of γδ-expressing thymocytes were not affected. In developing thymocytes. Dicer was not required for the maintenance of transcriptional silencing at pericentromeric satellite sequences (constitutive heterochromatin), the maintenance of DNA methylation and X chromosome inactivation in female cells (facultative heterochromatin), and the stable shutdown of a developmentally regulated gene (developmentally regulated gene silencing). Most remarkably, given that one third of mammalian mRNAs are putative miRNA targets. Dicer seems to be dispensable for CD4/8 lineage commitment, a process in which epigenetic regulation of lineage choice has been well documented. Thus, although Dicer seems to be critical for the development of the early embryo, it may have limited impact on the implementation of some lineage-specific gene expression programs.
TGF-β1-induced Fascin1 promotes cell invasion and metastasis of human 786-0 renal carcinoma cells. Objective: To investigate the effect of transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1) on the expression of Fascin1 protein and its impact on cell invasion and metastasis in human renal carcinoma. Methods: Renal tissue slices of 52 cases when undergoing radical nephrectomy were collected to be the observation group, and the normal renal tissues of 23 cases when undergoing nephrectomy due to trauma were collected to be the control group. The expressions of TGF-β1 and Fascin1 were measured by immunohistochemical staining. Human renal carcinoma 786-0 cell line was selected as the study subject. The cells were divided into six groups including NT (no transfection), si-NC (transfection with pGenesil-1-con) si-Fascin1 (transfection with pGen-1-FSCN1) groups, and three corresponding groups: NT, si-NC and si-Fascin1 groups treated with TGF-β1. RT-qPCR, Western-Blot, Transwell, and flow cytometry method were used in this study. Results: The expressions of TGF-β1 and Fascin1 in the observation group were significantly higher than those in the control group. The expression of TGF-β1 was positively correlated with that of Fascin1. After 24 and 48 h of treatment with TGF-β1 (10 ng/mL), the invasive and metastatic abilities of the 786-0 cells in the NT and si-NC groups were higher than those before the treatment (P < 0.05). Comparing the three groups before TGF-β1 treatment, the invasive and metastatic ability of 786-0 cells in the si-Fascin1 were significantly lower than those in the NT group and si-NC group (P < 0.05). Conclusion: TGF-β1 could induce the expressions of 786-0 Fascin1 mRNA and protein and thus improve the invasive and metastatic ability of human 786-0 renal carcinoma cell.
TMEM182 interacts with integrin beta 1 and regulates myoblast differentiation and muscle regeneration. Background: Transmembrane proteins are vital for intercellular signalling and play important roles in the control of cell fate. However, their physiological functions and mechanisms of action in myogenesis and muscle disorders remain largely unexplored. It has been found that transmembrane protein 182 (TMEM182) is dramatically up-regulated during myogenesis, but its detailed functions remain unclear. This study aimed to analyse the function of TMEM182 during myogenesis and muscle regeneration. Methods: RNA sequencing, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, and immunofluorescence approaches were used to analyse TMEM182 expression during myoblast differentiation. A dual-luciferase reporter assay was used to identify the promoter region of the TMEM182 gene, and a chromatin immunoprecipitation assay was used to investigate the regulation TMEM182 transcription by MyoD. We used chickens and TMEM182-knockout mice as in vivo models to examine the function of TMEM182 in muscle growth and muscle regeneration. Chickens and mouse primary myoblasts were used to extend the findings to in vitro effects on myoblast differentiation and fusion. Co-immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometry were used to identify the interaction between TMEM182 and integrin beta 1 (ITGB1). The molecular mechanism by which TMEM182 regulates myogenesis and muscle regeneration was examined by Transwell migration, cell wound healing, adhesion, glutathione-S-transferse pull down, protein purification, and RNA immunoprecipitation assays. Results: TMEM182 was specifically expressed in skeletal muscle and adipose tissue and was regulated at the transcriptional level by the myogenic regulatory factor MyoD1. Functionally, TMEM182 inhibited myoblast differentiation and fusion. The in vivo studies indicated that TMEM182 induced muscle fibre atrophy and delayed muscle regeneration. TMEM182 knockout in mice led to significant increases in body weight, muscle mass, muscle fibre number, and muscle fibre diameter. Skeletal muscle regeneration was accelerated in TMEM182-knockout mice. Furthermore, we revealed that the inhibitory roles of TMEM182 in skeletal muscle depend on ITGB1, an essential membrane receptor involved in cell adhesion and muscle formation. TMEM182 directly interacted with ITGB1, and this interaction required an extracellular hybrid domain of ITGB1 (aa 387–470) and a conserved region (aa 52–62) within the large extracellular loop of TMEM182. Mechanistically, TMEM182 modulated ITGB1 activation by coordinating the association between ITGB1 and laminin and regulating the intracellular signalling of ITGB1. Myogenic deletion of TMEM182 increased the binding activity of ITGB1 to laminin and induced the activation of the FAK-ERK and FAK-Akt signalling axes during myogenesis. Conclusions: Our data reveal that TMEM182 is a novel negative regulator of myogenic differentiation and muscle regeneration.
TPX2 is a novel prognostic marker for the growth and metastasis of colon cancer. Background: We have previously demonstrated an aberrant overexpression of the microtubule-associated protein TPX2 in colon cancer using a genome-wide gene expression profiling analysis. Here, we aim to investigate its expression pattern, clinical significance, and biological function in colon cancer. Methods: TPX2 expression was analyzed in human colon cancer cell lines and tumor samples. The effect of TPX2 on cell proliferation, tumorigenesis, and metastasis was examined in vitro and in vivo. Results: TPX2 was overexpressed in 129 of the 203 (60.8%) colon cancer metastatic lesions, with the expression being significantly higher than that in primary cancerous tissue and normal colon mucosa. Overexpression of TPX2 was significantly associated with clinical staging, vessel invasion, and metastasis. In survival analyses, patients with TPX2 overexpression had worse overall survival and metastasis free survival, suggesting that deregulation of TPX2 may contribute to the metastasis of colon cancer. Consistent with this, suppression of TPX2 expression inhibited proliferation and tumorigenicity of colon cancer cells both in vitro and in vivo. Strikingly, we found that TPX2 knockdown significantly attenuated the migration and invasion ability of colon cancer cells, which was further shown to be mechanistically associated with AKT-mediated MMP2 activity. Conclusions: These findings suggest that TPX2 plays an important role in promoting tumorigenesis and metastasis of human colon cancer, and may represent a novel prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target for the disease.
TRIM21 mediates ubiquitination of Snail and modulates epithelial to mesenchymal transition in breast cancer cells. Migration and invasion of cancer cells are greatly increased during epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT). Depletion of TRIM21 promotes the migration and invasion of MCF7 and T47D cells, and changes the expression of genes that regulate EMT. TRIM21 interacts with Snail, a master regulator of EMT. Overexpression of TRIM21 leads to increased ubiquitination and proteosomal degradation of Snail, while depletion of TRIM21 decreases the ubiquitination of Snail. Importantly, depletion of Snail suppresses the increased migration and invasion of MCF7 and T47D cells promoted by depletion of TRIM21. High-level expression of TRIM21 is associated with longer overall survival in breast cancer. Together, our study demonstrates that TRIM21 modulates EMT by mediating the stability of Snail in breast cancer cells.
Targeted Degradation of CTCF Decouples Local Insulation of Chromosome Domains from Genomic Compartmentalization. The molecular mechanisms underlying folding of mammalian chromosomes remain poorly understood. The transcription factor CTCF is a candidate regulator of chromosomal structure. Using the auxin-inducible degron system in mouse embryonic stem cells, we show that CTCF is absolutely and dose-dependently required for looping between CTCF target sites and insulation of topologically associating domains (TADs). Restoring CTCF reinstates proper architecture on altered chromosomes, indicating a powerful instructive function for CTCF in chromatin folding. CTCF remains essential for TAD organization in non-dividing cells. Surprisingly, active and inactive genome compartments remain properly segregated upon CTCF depletion, revealing that compartmentalization of mammalian chromosomes emerges independently of proper insulation of TADs. Furthermore, our data support that CTCF mediates transcriptional insulator function through enhancer blocking but not as a direct barrier to heterochromatin spreading. Beyond defining the functions of CTCF in chromosome folding, these results provide new fundamental insights into the rules governing mammalian genome organization.
Targeted Enhancer Activation by a Subunit of the Integrator Complex. The control of cell fate is an epigenetic process initiated by transcription factors (TFs) that recognize DNA motifs and recruit activator complexes and transcriptional machineries to chromatin. Lineage specificity is thought to be provided solely by TF-motif pairing, while the recruited activators are passive. Here, we show that INTS13, a subunit of the Integrator complex, operates as monocytic/macrophagic differentiation factor. Integrator is a general activator of transcription at coding genes and is required for eRNA maturation. Here, we show that INTS13 functions as an independent sub-module and targets enhancers through Early Growth Response (EGR1/2) TFs and their co-factor NAB2. INTS13 binds poised monocytic enhancers eliciting chromatin looping and activation. Independent depletion of INTS13, EGR1, or NAB2 impairs monocytic differentiation of cell lines and primary human progenitors. Our data demonstrate that Integrator is not functionally homogeneous and has TF-specific regulatory potential, revealing a new enhancer regulatory axis that controls myeloid differentiation. Barbieri  demonstrate that a subunit of the Integrator complex, INTS13, is required for monocytic commitment of myeloid progenitors. INTS13 is a modular component of Integrator recruited to poised enhancers via the EGR1 transcription factor and its co-factor NAB2. The INTS13/EGR1/NAB2 axis is essential to elicit enhancer-mediated gene activation.
Tat-HSP22 inhibits oxidative stress-induced hippocampal neuronal cell death by regulation of the mitochondrial pathway. Oxidative stress plays an important role in the progression of various neuronal diseases including ischemia. Heat shock protein 22 (HSP22) is known to protect cells against oxidative stress. However, the protective effects and mechanisms of HSP22 in hippocampal neuronal cells under oxidative stress remain unknown. In this study, we determined whether HSP22 protects against hydrogen peroxide (H2O2)-induced oxidative stress in HT-22 using Tat-HSP22 fusion protein. We found that Tat-HSP22 transduced into HT-22 cells and that H2O2-induced cell death, oxidative stress, and DNA damage were significantly reduced by Tat-HSP22. In addition, Tat-HSP22 markedly inhibited H2O2-induced mitochondrial membrane potential, cytochrome c release, cleaved caspase-3, and Bax expression levels, while Bcl-2 expression levels were increased in HT-22 cells. Further, we showed that Tat-HSP22 transduced into animal brain and inhibited cleaved-caspase-3 expression levels as well as significantly inhibited hippocampal neuronal cell death in the CA1 region of animals in the ischemic animal model. In the present study, we demonstrated that transduced Tat-HSP22 attenuates oxidative stress-induced hippocampal neuronal cell death through the mitochondrial signaling pathway and plays a crucial role in inhibiting neuronal cell death, suggesting that Tat-HSP22 protein may be used to prevent oxidative stress-related brain diseases including ischemia.
Tat-binding protein-1 (TBP-1), an ATPase of 19S regulatory particles of the 26S proteasome, enhances androgen receptor function in cooperation with TBP-1-interacting protein/Hop2. The 26S proteasome, which degrades ubiquitinated proteins, appears to contribute to the cyclical loading of androgen receptor (AR) to androgen response elements of target gene promoters; however, the mechanism whereby the 26S proteasome modulates AR recruitment remains unknown. Using yeast two-hybrid screening, we previously identified Tat-binding protein-1 (TBP-1), an adenosine triphosphatase of 19S regulatory particles of the 26S proteasome, as a transcriptional coactivator of thyroid hormone receptor. Independently, TBP-1-interacting protein (TBPIP) was also identified as a coactivator of several nuclear receptors, including AR. Here, we investigated whether TBP-1 could interact with and modulate transcriptional activation by AR cooperatively with TBPIP. TBP-1 mRNA was ubiquitously expressed in human tissues, including the testis and prostate, as well as in LNCaP cells. TBP-1 directly bound TBPIP through the amino-terminal domain possessing the leucine zipper structure. AR is physically associated with TBP-1 and TBPIP in vitro and in LNCaP cells. TBP-1 similarly and additively augmented AR-mediated transcription upon coexpression with TBPIP, and the ATPase domain, as well as leucine zipper structure in TBP-1, was essential for transcriptional enhancement. Overexpression of TBP-1 did not alter AR protein and mRNA levels. In the chromatin immunoprecipitation assay, TBP-1 was transiently recruited to the proximal androgen response element of the prostate-specific antigen gene promoter in a ligand-dependent manner in LNCaP cells. These findings suggest that a component of 19S regulatory particles directly binds AR and might participate in AR-mediated transcriptional activation in cooperation with TBPIP.
Telomerase activation by histone deacetylase inhibitor in normal cells. Although telomerase activity is known to be regulated mainly at the level of transcription of the human telomerase catalytic subunit (hTERT) gene, the molecular mechanism underlying tumor-specific expression of telomerase remains unclear. Emerging evidence suggests that reversible acetylation of nucleosomal histones and the resultant changes in the chromatin structure are important processes in gene transcription. In particular, histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors activate the transcription of certain genes by altering the acetylation status of nucleosomal histones. The present study examines the effects of HDAC inhibitor on hTERT gene transcription. Treatment with tricostatin A (TSA) induced significant activation of hTERT mRNA expression and telomerase activity in normal cells, but not in cancer cells. Transient expression assays revealed that TSA activates the hTERT promoter. Furthermore, the proximal 181 bp core promoter of hTERT, which contains two c-Myc and five Sp1 sites, was determined to be the responsible element. Over-expression of Sp1 enhanced responsiveness to TSA, and mutation of Sp1 sites, but not c-Myc sites, of the core promoter of hTERT abrogated this activation. Introduction of the dominant-negative form of the Sp family inhibited TSA activation. These results indicate that HDAC inhibitor activates the hTERT promoter in normal cells, in which Sp1 plays a key role. This finding suggests one way whereby histone deacetylation may be involved in silencing the hTERT gene in normal cells.
Tethered ligand agonist peptides. Structural requirements for thrombin receptor activation reveal mechanism of proteolytic unmasking of agonist function. The human platelet thrombin receptor is activated when thrombin cleaves its receptor's amino-terminal extension to reveal a new amino terminus that functions as a tethered peptide ligand. Exactly how this 'agonist peptide domain' remains cryptic within the uncleaved receptor and becomes functional after receptor cleavage is unknown. In this report we define the structural features of the thrombin receptor's agonist peptide domain important for receptor activation. Studies with mutant thrombin receptors have suggested that agonist peptide domain residues 2-6 contained determinants critical for receptor activation, and the synthetic peptide SFLLR-NH2 representing the 1st 5 amino-terminal residues of the agonist peptide domain was sufficient to specify agonist activity. Acetylating or removing the agonist peptide's amino-terminal ammonium group greatly attenuated agonist activity. Agonist peptide residue Phe2 was vital for agonist function; residues Leu4 and Arg5 individually played less important roles. These structure-function relationships held for both platelet activation and activation of the cloned receptor expressed in transfected mammalian cells. Our studies suggest that structures at the extreme amino terminus of the thrombin receptor's agonist peptide domain, in particular the free ammonium group of Ser1 and the phenyl ring of Phe2, are critical for receptor activation and that the agonist function of this domain is expressed when receptor proteolysis unmasks such determinants. In addition to revealing details of the thrombin receptor's proteolytic triggering mechanism, these studies open avenues to the development of drugs targeting the thrombin receptor and to further definition for the role of the thrombin receptor in cellular regulation.
The 44P subunit of the T4 DNA polymerase accessory protein complex catalyzes ATP hydrolysis. The genes encoding all three T4 DNA polymerase accessory proteins have been cloned into overexpression plasmids. Induction of cells harboring these plasmids results in the synthesis of each accessory protein at levels that approach 10% of the total cellular protein. The solubility of the accessory proteins after induction at 42°C ranges from about 60% to greater than 95%. A plasmid that allows overexpression of the 44P/62P complex has been manipulated further to overexpress selectively the 44P subunit without 62P, permitting us to assess how each subunit contributes to the properties of the 44P/62P complex. A comparison of 44P and 44P/62P by conventional hydrodynamic techniques shows that 44P forms a subcomplex nearly as large as the 44P/62P complex. In addition, 44P catalyzes DNA-dependent ATP hydrolysis with a specific activity similar to that of the 44P/62P ATPase. However, unlike the 44P/62P complex, the ATPase activity of 44P alone is only slightly stimulated by 45P. This suggests that one role of the 62P subunit is to facilitate a productive interaction of 44P and 45P.
The ALOXE3 gene variants from patients with Dravet syndrome decrease gene expression and enzyme activity. Aberrant expression or dysfunction of a number of genes in the brain contributes to epilepsy, a common neurological disorder characterized by recurrent seizures. Local overexpression of arachidonate lipoxygenase 3 (ALOXE3), a key enzyme for arachidonic acid (AA) metabolic pathway, alleviates seizure severities. However, the relationship between the ALOXE3 gene mutation and epilepsy has not been reported until now. Here we firstly characterized the promoter of human ALOXE3 gene and found that the ALOXE3 promoter could drive luciferase gene expression in the human HEK-293 and SH-SY5Y cells. We then screened the ALOXE3 promoter region and all coding exons from those patients with Dravet syndrome and identified 5 variants c.−163T > C, c.−50C > G, c.−37G > A, c. + 228G > A and c. + 290G > T in the promoter region and one missense variant c.1939A > G (p.I647 V) in the exon. Of these variants in the promoter region, only -50C > G was a novel variant located on the transcriptional factor NFII-I binding element. Luciferase reporter gene analyses indicated that the c.-50C > G could decrease gene expression by preventing the TFII-I's binding. In addition, the variant p.I647 V was conserved among all analyzed species and located within the ALOXE3 functional domain for catalyzing its substrate. In cultured cell lines, overexpression of ALOXE3 significantly decreased the cellular AA levels and overexpression of ALOXE3-I647 V could restore the AA levels, suggesting that the p.I647 V mutant led to a decrease in enzyme activity. Taken together, the present study proposes that the identified ALOXE3 variants potentially contribute to the AA-pathway-mediated epileptogenesis, which should provide a novel avenue for clinical diagnosis of epilepsy.
The BCL2 gene is regulated by a special AT-rich sequence binding protein 1-mediated long range chromosomal interaction between the promoter and the distal element located within the 3′-UTR. The 279-bp major breakpoint region (mbr) within the 3′-untranslated region (3′-UTR) of the BCL2 gene is a binding site of special AT-rich sequence binding protein 1 (SATB1) that is well known to participate in the long-range regulation of gene transcription. Our previous studies have revealed that the mbr could regulate BCL2 transcription over a 200-kb distance and this regulatory function was closely related to SATB1. This study is to explore the underlying mechanism and its relevance to cellular apoptosis. With chromosome conformation capture (3C) and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assays we demonstrated that the mbr could physically interact with BCL2 promoter through SATB1-mediated chromatin looping, which was required for epigenetic modifications of the promoter, CREB accessibility and high expression of the BCL2 gene. During early apoptosis, SATB1 was a key regulator of BCL2 expression. Inhibition of SATB1 cleavage by treatment of cells with a caspase-6 inhibitor or overexpression of mutant SATB1 that was resistant to caspase-6, inhibited disassembly of the SATB1-mediated chromatin loop and restored the BCL2 mRNA level in Jurkat cells. These data revealed a novel mechanism of BCL2 regulation and mechanistically link SATB1-mediated long-range interaction with the regulation of a gene controlling apoptosis pathway for the first time.
The D2 period of collagen II contains a specific binding site for the human discoidin domain receptor, DDR2. The human discoidin domain receptors (DDRs), DDR1 and DDR2, are expressed widely and, uniquely among receptor tyrosine kinases, activated by the extracellular matrix protein collagen. This activation is due to a direct interaction of collagen with the DDR discoidin domain. Here, we localised a specific DDR2 binding site on the triple-helical region of collagen II. Collagen II was found to be a much better ligand for DDR2 than for DDR1. As expected, DDR2 binding to collagen II was dependent on triple-helical collagen and was mediated by the DDR2 discoidin domain. Collagen II served as a potent stimulator of DDR2 autophosphorylation, the first step in transmembrane signalling. To map the DDR2 binding site(s) on collagen II, we used recombinant collagen II variants with specific deletions of one of the four repeating D periods. We found that the D2 period of collagen II was essential for DDR2 binding and receptor autophosphorylation, whereas the D3 and D4 periods were dispensable. The DDR2 binding site on collagen II was further defined by recombinant collagen II-like proteins consisting predominantly of tandem repeats of the D2 or D4 period. The D2 construct, but not the D4 construct, mediated DDR2 binding and receptor autophosphorylation, demonstrating that the D2 period of collagen II harbours a specific DDR2 recognition site. The discovery of a site-specific interaction of DDR2 with collagen II gives novel insight into the nature of the interaction of collagen II with matrix receptors.
The Emerging Role of FOXL2 in Regulating the Transcriptional Activation Function of Estrogen Receptor β: An Insight into Ovarian Folliculogenesis. Germline mutations of the fork-head transcriptional factor forkhead box L2 (FOXL2) predispose embryos to autosomal-dominant blepharophimosis-ptosis-epicanthus inversus syndrome with primary ovarian insufficiency in female patients, but the mechanisms of FOXL2 in ovarian follicular development remain elusive. Estrogens produced by ovarian granulosa cells and estrogen receptor (ER) α and ERβ play fundamental roles in ovarian pathophysiology, and a previous study revealed that ERα and ERβ physically interact with FOXL2. However, the underlying functions of these interactions have not been investigated. Herein, we report an ERβ-specific repressive function of FOXL2. Histological examination demonstrated that FOXL2 expression tends to be intense during early follicular development. Immunoprecipitation revealed that ERβ and FOXL2 interact in a ligand-independent manner. In vitro pull-down assays revealed a direct interaction between FOXL2 and the activation function (AF)-1/2 domain of ERβ. The expression of FOXL2 represses the ligand-dependent transcriptional activation of ERβ, but FOXL2 does not influence the ligand-dependent transcriptional activation of ERα. Consistent with these results, RNA interference-mediated depletion of FOXL2 stimulates the expression of the ERβ-downstream gene p450 aromatase. The convergence between FOXL2 functions and ERβ-mediated transcription in the ovary suggests the putative mechanism of FOXL2 in early-phase follicular development, which may be partially attributed to the regulation of ERβ-dependent gene expression.
The IL-2 receptor present on human embryonic fibroblasts is functional in the absence of P64/IL-2Rγ chain. In this study, we have investigated the IL-2Rγ gene expression in several human embryonic fibroblasts which express other components of the IL-2 receptor (IL-2R). Polymerase chain reaction did not allow us to detect IL-2Rγ transcripts in these cells but the functionality of the IL-2Rαβ was not affected. Indeed, in the human IL-2Rα+β+γ- embryonic lung fibroblasts ICIG-7, IL-2 induced identical phenomena to those previously reported in lymphoid cells: rapid internalization of the IL-2Rαβ-IL-2 complex, specific phosphorylation of cellular proteins (56 and 38 kDa) and up-regulatlon of ICAM-1 expression. IL-2 induction of ICAM-1 was only observed in sparse cultures and for IL-2 concentrations over 180 pM. We have also observed, in these fibrobiastic cells, the up-regulation of ICAM-2 expression by IL-2, both in sparse and dense cultures. These data show that p64/IL-2Rγ expression in human embryonic fibroblasts does not correlate with the ability of the IL-2R to deliver a biological signal.
The N-Linked Glycosylation Site N191 Is Necessary for PKA Signal Transduction in Eel Follicle-Stimulating Hormone Receptor. The follicle-stimulating hormone receptor (FSHR) contains several N-linked glycosylation sites in its extracellular region. We conducted the present study to determine whether conserved glycosylated sites in eel FSHR are necessary for cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) signal transduction. We used site-directed mutagenesis to induce four mutations (N120Q, N191Q, N272Q, and N288Q) in the N-linked glycosylation sites of eel FSHR. In the eel FSHR wild-type (wt), the cAMP response was gradually increased in a dose-dependent manner (0.01–1500 ng/mL), displaying a high response (approximately 57.5 nM/104 cells) at the Rmax level. Three mutants (N120Q, N272Q, and N288Q) showed a considerably decreased signal transduction as a result of high-ligand treatment, whereas one mutant (N191Q) exhibited a completely impaired signal transduction. The expression level of the N191Q mutant was only 9.2% relative to that of the eel FSHR-wt, indicating a negligible expression level. The expression levels of the N120Q and N272Q mutants were approximately 35.9% and 24% of the FSHG-wt, respectively. The N288Q mutant had an expression level similar to that of the eel FSHR-wt, despite the mostly impaired cAMP responsiveness. The loss of the cell surface agonist-receptor complexes was very rapid in the cells expressing eel FSHR-wt and FSHR-N288Q mutants. Specifically, the N191Q mutant was completely impaired by the loss of cell surface receptors, despite treatment with a high concentration of the agonist. Therefore, we suggest that the N191 site is necessary for cAMP signal transduction. This finding implies that the cAMP response, mediated by G proteins, is directly related to the loss of cell surface receptors as a result of high-agonist treatment.
The PDZ binding motif of human papillomavirus type 16 E6 induces PTPN13 loss, which allows anchorage-independent growth and synergizes with ras for invasive growth. The human papillomavirus (HPV) oncogene E6 has been shown to perform multiple functions (p53 degradation, telomerase activation, etc.) that play a role in oncogenic transformation. Beyond known E6 functions, an undefined mechanism that allows cellular invasion requires the E6 PDZ binding motif (PDZBM). Here, we show that HPV type 16 (HPV16) E6 interacts with and induces loss of a protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTPN13) in a PDZBM-dependent manner. PTPN13 loss induced either by the presence of E6 or by a short hairpin RNA strategy allows for anchorage-independent growth (AIG) and synergy with a known oncogene, Rasv12, resulting in invasive growth in vivo. Restoring PTPN13 expression reverses AIG in cells lacking PTPN13. A genomic analysis of colorectal carcinoma has identified an association between PTPN13 loss-of-function mutations and aberrant Ras signaling. Our findings support this correlation and provide methods for further evaluation of the mechanisms by which PTPN13 loss/Ras expression leads to invasive growth, the results of which will be important for treatment of HPV-related and non-HPV cancer.
The Rb/chromatin connection and epigenetic control: Opinion. The balance between cell differentiation and proliferation is regulated at the transcriptional level. In the cell cycle, the transition from G1 to S phase (G1/S transition) is of paramount importance in this regard. Indeed, it is only before this point that cells can be oriented toward the differentiation pathway: beyond, cells progress into the cycle in an autonomous manner. The G1/S transition is orchestrated by the transcription factor E2F. E2F controls the expression of a group of checkpoint genes whose products are required either for the G1-to-S transition itself or for DNA replication (e.g. DNA polymerase α). E2F activity is repressed in growth-arrested cells and in early G1, and is activated at mid-to-late G1. E2F is controlled by the retinoblastoma tumor suppressor protein Rb. Rb represses E2F mainly by recruiting chromatin remodeling factors (histone deacetylases and SWI/SNF complexes), the DNA methyltransferase DNMT1, and a histone methyltransferase. This review will focus on the molecular mechanisms of E2F repression by Rb during the cell cycle and during cell-cycle exit by differentiating cells. A model in which Rb irreversibly represses E2F-regulated genes in differentiated cells by an epigenetic mechanism linked to heterochromatin, and involving histone H3 and promoter DNA methylation, is discussed.
The SHIP2 interactor Myo1c is required for cell migration in 1321 N1 glioblastoma cells. The phosphoinositide 5-phosphatases consist of several enzymes that have been shown to modulate cell migration and invasion. SHIP2, one family member, is known to interact with growth factor receptors and cytoskeletal proteins. In a human model of glioblastoma 1321 N1 cells, we recently identified Myo1c as a new interactor of SHIP2. This was shown in a complex of proteins also containing filamin A. We show here that SHIP2 localization at lamellipodia and ruffles is impaired in Myo1c depleted cells. In the absence of Myo1c, N1 cells tend to associate to form clusters. Cell migration is very much reduced in Myo1c depleted cells, concomitantly with a decrease in FAK Tyr397 phosphorylation, focal adhesion length and PI(4,5)P2 immunostaining. In N1 cells, Myo1c is thus important for lamellipodia formation to assemble a protein complex containing SHIP2 to facilitate cell migration.
The State of Maturation of Monocytes into Macrophages Determines the Effects of IL-4 and IL-13 on HIV Replication. The molecular mechanisms of the effects of IL-4 and IL-13 on HIV infection in human monocytes as they matured into monocyte-derived macrophages over 7 days were investigated using HIV-1 BaL and low passage clinical strains. IL-4 and IL-13 up- regulated the expression of both genomic and spliced HIV mRNA in monocytes cultured on Teflon, as determined by Northern analysis and p24 Ag assay. Using a nuclear run-on assay, IL-4 stimulation was shown to enhance transcription by two- to threefold. IL-4 stimulated nuclear factor-κB nuclear translocation and binding before enhancement of HIV RNA expression. Conversely, IL-4 and IL-13 markedly and significantly inhibited HIV replication at the transcriptional level in monocyte-derived macrophages, and this occurred whether these cytokines were added before or after HIV infection. The reversal from stimulation to inhibition occurred after 3 to 5 days of adherence to plastic. IL-4 had no significant effect on HIV reverse transcription. The effect of both cytokines on the monocyte maturation/differentiation (CD11b, CD13, and CD26) and other macrophage markers (CD14 and CD68) was examined. IL-4 enhanced CD11b, but inhibited CD26 expression and delayed CD13 loss. IL-13 had similar effects on CD11b and CD13, but no effect on CD26. Hence, these cytokines do not simply enhance monocyte differentiation, but have complex and slightly divergent effects that impact on HIV replication probably through cell signaling pathways and nuclear factor-κB translocation.
The Use of Machine Learning to Create a Risk Score to Predict Survival in Patients with Hepatocellular Carcinoma: A TCGA Cohort Analysis. Introduction. Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) accounts for approximately 90% of primary liver malignancies and is currently the fourth most common cause of cancer-related death worldwide. Due to varying underlying etiologies, the prognosis of HCC differs greatly among patients. It is important to develop ways to help stratify patients upon initial diagnosis to provide optimal treatment modalities and follow-up plans. The current study uses Artificial Neural Network (ANN) and Classification Tree Analysis (CTA) to create a gene signature score that can help predict survival in patients with HCC. Methods. The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA-LIHC) was analyzed for differentially expressed genes. Clinicopathological data were obtained from cBioPortal. ANN analysis of the 75 most significant genes predicting disease-free survival (DFS) was performed. Next, CTA results were used for creation of the scoring system. Cox regression was performed to identify the prognostic value of the scoring system. Results. 363 patients diagnosed with HCC were analyzed in this study. ANN provided 15 genes with normalized importance >50%. CTA resulted in a set of three genes (NRM, STAG3, and SNHG20). Patients were then divided in to 4 groups based on the CTA tree cutoff values. The Kaplan-Meier analysis showed significantly reduced DFS in groups 1, 2, and 3 (median DFS: 29.7 months, 16.1 months, and 11.7 months, p < 0.01) compared to group 0 (median not reached). Similar results were observed when overall survival (OS) was analyzed. On multivariate Cox regression, higher scores were associated with significantly shorter DFS (1 point: HR 2.57 (1.38-4.80), 2 points: 3.91 (2.11-7.24), and 3 points: 5.09 (2.70-9.58), p < 0.01). Conclusion. Long-term outcomes of patients with HCC can be predicted using a simplified scoring system based on tumor mRNA gene expression levels. This tool could assist clinicians and researchers in identifying patients at increased risks for recurrence to tailor specific treatment and follow-up strategies for individual patients.
The Wilms tumor protein WT1 stimulates transcription of the gene encoding insulin-like growth factor binding protein 5 (IGFBP5). Insulin-like growth factor (IGF) binding proteins (IGFBPs) constitute a family of six secreted proteins that regulate the signaling of insulin-like growth factors (IGFs). IGFBP5 is the most conserved family member in vertebrates and the major IGF binding protein in bone. IGFBP5 is required for normal development of the musculoskeletal system, and various types of cancer frequently express high levels of IGFP5. Here we identify the gene encoding IGFBP5 as a novel downstream target of the Wilms tumor protein WT1. IGFBP5 and WT1 are expressed in an overlapping pattern in the condensing metanephric mesenchyme of embryonic murine kidneys. Down-regulation of WT1 by transfection with antisense vivo-morpholino significantly decreased Igfbp5 transcripts in murine embryonic kidney explants. Likewise, silencing of Wt1 in a mouse mesonephros-derived cell line reduced Igfbp5 mRNA levels by approximately 80%. Conversely, induction of the WT1(− KTS) isoform, whose role as transcriptional regulator has been firmly established, significantly increased IGFBP5 mRNA and protein levels in osteosarcoma cells. IGFBP5 expression was not significantly changed by WT1(+ KTS) protein, which exhibits lower DNA binding affinity than the WT1(− KTS) isoform and has a presumed role in post-transcriptional gene regulation. Luciferase reporter constructs harboring 0.8 and 1.6 kilobases of the murine Igfbp5 promoter, respectively, were stimulated approximately 5-fold by co-transfection of WT1(− KTS). The WT1(+ KTS) variant had no significant effect on IGFBP5 promoter activity. Binding of WT1(− KTS), but not of WT1(+ KTS) protein, to the IGFBP5 promoter in human osteosarcoma cells was proven by chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and confirmed by electrophoretic mobility shift assay. These findings demonstrate that WT1 activates transcription of the IGFBP5 gene with possible implications for kidney development and bone (patho)physiology.
The XPB subunit of the TFIIH complex plays a critical role in HIV-1 transcription, and XPB inhibition by spironolactone prevents HIV-1 reactivation from latency. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) transcription requires assembly of cellular transcription factors at the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) promoter. The TFIIH general transcription factor facilitates transcription initiation by opening the DNA strands around the transcription start site and phosphorylating the C-terminal domain of RNA polymerase II (RNAPII) for activation. Spironolactone (SP), an FDA approved aldosterone antagonist, triggers the proteasomal degradation of the XPB subunit of TFIIH and concurrently suppresses acute HIV infection in vitro. Here, we investigated SP as a possible block-and-lock agent for a functional cure, aimed at the transcriptional silencing of the viral reservoir. The long-term activity of SP was investigated in primary and cell line models of HIV-1 latency and reactivation. We show that SP rapidly inhibits HIV-1 transcription by reducing RNAPII recruitment to the HIV-1 genome. Short hairpin RNA (shRNA) knockdown of XPB confirmed XPB loss as the mechanism of action of HIV inhibition. Unfortunately, long-term pretreatment with SP does not result in long-term epigenetic suppression of HIV upon SP treatment interruption, since the virus rapidly rebounds when XPB reemerges; however, SP alone without antiretroviral therapy (ART) maintains transcriptional silencing of HIV. Importantly, SP inhibits HIV reactivation from latency in both cell line models and resting CD41 T cells isolated from aviremic individuals living with HIV upon cell stimulation with latency-reversing agents. Furthermore, long-term treatment with concentrations of SP that potently degrade XPB does not lead to global dysregulation of cellular mRNA expression. Overall, these results suggest that XPB plays a key role in HIV transcriptional regulation, and XPB degradation by SP strengthens the potential of HIV transcriptional inhibitors in block-and-lock cure approaches. IMPORTANCE Antiretroviral therapy (ART) effectively reduces an individual’s HIV loads to below the detection limit; nevertheless, rapid viral rebound immediately ensues upon treatment interruption. Furthermore, virally suppressed individuals experience chronic immune activation from ongoing low-level viral expression. Thus, the importance of identifying novel therapeutics to explore in block-and-lock HIV functional cure approaches, aimed at the transcriptional and epigenetic silencing of the viral reservoir to block reactivation from latency, is apparent. We investigated the potential of repurposing the FDA-approved spironolactone (SP) as one such drug. SP treatment rapidly degrades a host transcription factor subunit, XPB, inhibiting HIV transcription and blocking reactivation from latency. Long-term SP treatment does not affect cellular viability, cell cycle progression, or global cellular transcription. SP alone blocks HIV transcription in the absence of ART but does not delay rebound upon drug removal, as XPB rapidly reemerges. This study highlights XPB as a novel drug target in block-and-lock therapeutic approaches.
The activation of ProMMP-2 (gelatinase A) by HT1080 fibrosarcoma cells is promoted by culture on a fibronectin substrate and is concomitant with an increase in processing of MT1-MMP (MMP-14) to a 45 kDa form. We have assessed the effect of fibronectin and laminin-1 on the expression of molecules involved in the activation pathway of MMP-2, a key proteinase in tissue remodelling, HT1080 fibrosarcoma cells cultured on fibronectin were shown to activate endogenous MMP-2, to a level comparable with that elicited by treatment with phorhol ester. In contrast, the MMP-2 expressed by HT1080 cells cultured on laminin-1 was mainly in the pro- (inactive form). Culture of the cells on peptide fragments of fibronectin derived from the central cell binding domain also promoted MMP-2 activation, indicating that signals via fibronectin binding to integrin receptors may be involved. HT1080 cells cultured on immobilised antibodies to the α5 and β1 integrin subunits secreted levels of active MMP-2 similar to those observed for full length fibronectin, whereas cells cultured on an antibody to the α6 integrin subunit secreted mainly proMMP-2. The data demonstrate that the activation of MRIP-2 by HT1080 cells is regulated by the nature of the extracellular matrix, and that signals via the α5β1 integrin receptor may be involved in the fibronectin induced up-regulation of MMP-2 activation. We then assessed the effect of fibronectin on the components of the putative MT1-MMP/TIMP-2 'receptor') complex implicated in MMP-2 activation. Levels of TIMP-2 protein expressed by HT1080 cells did not vary detectably between cells cultured on fibronectin or laminin-1. However, the expression of MT1-MMP protein was upregulated when the cells were cultured on fibronectin, which could be attributed to an increase in levels of a truncated 45 kDa form. Parallel studies using gelatin zymography demonstrated that the up-regulation of the production of the 45 kDa band was concomitant with MMP-2 activation. Inhibitor studies revealed that the truncation of MT1-MMP to a 45 kDa form is MMP mediated, although not inhibited by TIMP-1. In vitro, the 45 kDa form could be generated by cleavage of membrane-bound native MT1-MMP with several recombinant MMPs, including both active MT1-MMP and MMP-2. The implication that either MMP-2 or MT1-MMP can process MT1-MMP to 45 kDa, raises the possibility that truncation of MT1-MMP represents a self-regulatory end-point in the activation pathway of MMP-2.
The bone-specific Runx2-P1 promoter displays conserved three-dimensional chromatin structure with the syntenic Supt3h promoter. Three-dimensional organization of chromatin is fundamental for transcriptional regulation. Tissuespecific transcriptional programs are orchestrated by transcription factors and epigenetic regulators. The RUNX2 transcription factor is required for differentiation of precursor cells into mature osteoblasts. Although organization and control of the bone-specific Runx2-P1 promoter have been studied extensively, long-range regulation has not been explored. In this study, we investigated higherorder organization of the Runx2-P1 promoter during osteoblast differentiation. Mining the ENCODE database revealed interactions between Runx2-P1 and Supt3h promoters in several non-mesenchymal human cell lines. Supt3h is a ubiquitously expressed gene located within the first intron of Runx2. These two genes show shared synteny across species from humans to sponges. Chromosome conformation capture analysis in the murine pre-osteoblastic MC3T3-E1 cell line revealed increased contact frequency between Runx2-P1 and Supt3h promoters during differentiation. This increase was accompanied by enhanced DNaseI hypersensitivity along with RUNX2 and CTCF binding at the Supt3h promoter. Furthermore, interplasmid-3C and luciferase reporter assays showed that the Supt3h promoter can modulate Runx2-P1 activity via direct association. Taken together, our data demonstrate physical proximity between Runx2-P1 and Supt3h promoters, consistent with their syntenic nature. Importantly, we identify the Supt3h promoter as a potential regulator of the bone-specific Runx2-P1 promoter.
The clusters of transcription factors NFATC2, STAT5, GATA2, AP1, RUNX1 and EGR2 binding sites at the induced Il13 enhancers mediate Il13 gene transcription in response to antigenic stimulation. IL-13 plays a critical role in mediating many biological processes responsible for allergic inflammation. Mast cells express Il13 mRNA and produce IL-13 protein in response to antigenic stimulation. Enhancers are essential in promoting gene transcription and are thought to activate transcription by delivering essential accessory cofactors to the promoter to potentiate gene transcription. However, enhancers mediating Il13 have not been identified. Furthermore, which Il13 enhancers detect signals triggered by antigenic stimulation have not yet been defined. In this study, we identified potential mouse Il13 enhancers using histone modification monomethylation at lysine residue 4 on histone 3 (H3K4me1) chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing and acetylation at lysine residue 27 on histone 3 (H3K27ac) chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing. We used Omni-assay for transposaseaccessible chromatin sequencing to determine which accessible regions within the potential Il13 enhancers that responded to IgE receptor crosslinking. We also demonstrated that the transcription factor cluster consisting of the NFATC2, STAT5, GATA2, AP1, and RUNX1 binding sites at the proximal Il13 enhancer and the transcription factor cluster consisting of the EGR2 binding site at the distal Il13 E+6.5 enhancer are critical in sensing the signals triggered by antigenic stimulation. Those enhancers, which are responsive to antigenic stimulation and are constitutively active, cooperate to generate greater transcriptional outputs. Our study reveals a novel mechanism underlying how antigenic stimulation induces robust Il13 mRNA expression in mouse mast cells.
The disease-associated r(GGGGCC)n repeat from the C9orf72 gene forms tract length-dependent uni- and multimolecular RNA G-quadruplex structures. Certain DNA and RNA sequences can form G-quadruplexes, which can affect promoter activity, genetic instability, RNA splicing, translation, and neurite mRNA localization. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and frontotemporal dementia were recently shown to be caused by expansion of a (GGGGCC)n· (GGCCCC)n repeat in the C9orf72 gene. Mutant r(GGGGCC) n-containing transcripts aggregate in nuclear foci possibly sequestering repeat-binding proteins, suggesting a toxic RNA pathogenesis. We demonstrate that the r(GGGGCC)n RNA but not the C-rich r(GGCCCC) n RNA forms extremely stable uni- and multimolecular parallel G-quadruplex structures (up to 95 °C). Multimolecular G-quadruplex formation is influenced by repeat number and RNA concentration. MBNL1, a splicing factor that is sequestered in myotonic dystrophy patients by binding to expanded r(CUG)n repeat hairpins, does not bind the C9orf72 repeats, but the splicing factor ASF/SF2 can bind the r(GGGGCC)n repeat. Because multimolecular G-quadruplexes are enhanced by repeat length, RNA-RNA interactions facilitated by G-quadruplex formation at expanded repeats might influence transcript aggregation and foci formation in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-frontotemporal dementia cells. Tract length-dependent G-quadruplex formation by the C9orf72RNA should be considered when assessing the role of this repeat in C9orf72 gene activity, protein binding, transcript foci formation, and translation of the C9orf72 product, including the noncanonical repeat-associated non-ATG translation (RAN translation) into pathologic dipeptide repeats, as well as any oligonucleotide repeat-based therapy.
The expression of miR-513c and miR-3163 was downregulated in tumor tissues compared with normal adjacent tissue of patients with breast cancer. Background: Breast cancer (BC) is the most invasive cancer with different subtypes that its metabolism is unique compared with normal cells. Glutamine is considered critical nutrition that many cancer cells, particularly BC cells, are dependent on it for growth and proliferation. Therefore, targeting glutamine metabolism, especially enzymes that are related to this pathway, can be beneficial to design anti-cancer agents. Recent evidence has shown that microRNAs (miRNAs), with a short length and single-strand properties, play a prominent role in regulating the genes related to glutamine metabolism, which may control the development of cancer. Methods: In silico analysis confirmed that miR-513c and miR-3163 might be involved in glutamine metabolism. The expression level of these two miRNAs was evaluated in eighty BC tissues and normal adjacent tissues. Furthermore, GSE38167, GSE38867, GSE42128, GSE45666, and GSE53179 were employed from gene expression omnibus (GEO). The Limma package was utilized to identify differentially expressed miRNAs (DEMs) of mentioned datasets to evaluate miR-513c and miR-3163 expression. Further, in silico analysis was utilized to predict the potential biological processes and molecular pathways of miR-513c and miR-3163, based on their target genes. Results: In silico studies revealed top categories of biological processes and cellular pathways that might play a critical role in metabolism reprogramming and cancer development and were target genes for miR-513c and miR-3163. The current study showed that miR-513c (p value = 0.02062 and FC = − 2.3801) and miR-3163 (p value = 0.02034 and FC = − 2.3792) were downregulated in tumor tissues compared to normal adjacent tissues. The analysis of GEO microarray datasets showed that miR-513c was downregulated in GSE38167, GSE38867, GSE42128, GSE45666 and GSE53179, whereas there was a significant downregulation of miR-3163 in only two studies, including GSE38867 and GSE42128 that they were in accordance with our experimental results. Furthermore, the subgroup analysis did not show any substantial relationship between expression levels of these two miRNAs and factors such as age, family history of cancer, and abortion history. Conclusion: MiR-513c and miR-3163 were downregulated in BC tissues, which might serve as tumor suppressors. They are suggested as potential therapeutic targets for patients with BC.
The expression of poly(A)-binding protein gene is translationally regulated in a growth-dependent fashion through a 5'-terminal oligopyrimidine tract motif. Poly(A)-binding protein (PABP) is an important regulator of gene expression that has been implicated in control of translation initiation. Here we report the isolation and the initial structural and functional characterization of the human PABP gene. Delineation of the promoter region revealed that it directs the initiation of transcription at consecutive C residues within a stretch of pyrimidines. A study of the translational behavior of the corresponding mRNA demonstrates that it is translationally repressed upon growth arrest of cultured mouse fibroblasts and translationally activated in regenerating rat liver. Furthermore, transfection experiments show that the first 32 nucleotides of PABP mRNA are sufficient to confer growth-dependent translational control on a heterologous mRNA. Substitution of the C residue at the cap site by purines abolishes the translational control of the chimeric mRNA. These features have established PABP mRNA as a new member of the terminal oligopyrimidine tract mRNA family. Members of this family are known to encode for components of the translational apparatus and to contain an oligopyrimidine tract at the 5' terminus (5'TOP). This motif mediates their translational control in a growth-dependent manner.
The function and structural influence of selective relaxed constraint at functional intracellular loop 3 of 5-HT 1A serotonin-1 receptor family. Serotonin (5-HT) and its receptors have been involved in critical signal transduction mechanism and deregulation implicated in mood-related disorders. 5-HT activities are mediated through a family of transmembrane spanning serotonin receptors. Both within the family and species, 5-HT receptor protein sequence diversity and 7-transmembrane structural homogeneity have long been intriguing. In this study, we have analyzed the codon site constraint in 5-HT1 subclass receptors from 13 orthologous mammalian mRNA coding sequence. Further, the study was extended to computationally investigate the impact of non-synonymous sites with respect to function and structural significance through sequence homology algorithm and molecular dynamics simulation (MDS). Codon sites with significant posterior probability were observed in 5-HT 1A, 5-HT 1B and 5-HT 1D receptor indicating variations in site constraint within the 5-HT1 sub-class genes. In 5-HT 1A receptor, seven sites were detected at the functional intracellular loop 3 (ICL 3) with higher substitution rate through Codeml program. Sequence homology algorithm identifies that these sites were functionally tolerant within the mammals representing a selectively relaxed constraint at this domain. On the other hand, the root mean square deviation (rmsd) values from MDS suggest differences in structural conformation of ICL 3 models among the species. Specifically, the human ICL 3 model fluctuation was comparatively more stable than other species. Hence, we argue that these sites may have varying influence in G-proteins coupling and activation of effectors systems through downstream interacting accessory proteins of cell among the species. However, further experimental studies are required to elucidate the precise role and the seeming difference of these sites in 5-HT receptors between species.
The gene for erythropoietin receptor is expressed in multipotential hematopoietic and embryonal stem cells: Evidence for differentiation stage- specific regulation. The principal regulator of erythropoiesis is the glycoprotein erythropoietin, which interacts with a specific cell surface receptor (EpoR). A study aimed at analyzing EpoR gene regulation has shown that both pluripotent embryonal stem cells and early multipotent hematopoietic cells express EpoR transcripts. Commitment to nonerythroid lineages (e.g., macrophage or lymphocytic) results in the shutdown of EpoR gene expression, whereas commitment to the erythroid lineage is concurrent with or followed by dramatic increases in EpoR transcription. To determine whether gene activity could be correlated with chromatin alterations, DNase-hypersensitive sites (HSS) were mapped. Two major HSS located in the promoter region and within the first intron of the EpoR gene are present in all embryonal stem and hematopoietic cells tested, the intensities of which correlate well with EpoR expression levels. In addition, a third major HSS also located within the first intron of the EpoR gene is uniquely present in erythroid cells that express high levels of EpoR. Transfection assays show that sequences surrounding this major HSS impart erythroid cell-specific enhancer activity to a heterologous promoter and that this activity is at least in part mediated by GATA-1. These data, together with concordant expression levels of GATA-1 and EpoR in both early multipotent hematopoietic and committed erythroid cells, support a regulatory role of the erythroid cell-specific transcription factor GATA-1 in EpoR transcription in these cells. However, the lack of significant levels of GATA-1 expression in embryonal stem cells implies an alternative regulatory mechanism of EpoR transcription in cells not committed to the hematopoietic lineage.
The genome in three dimensions: A new frontier in human brain research. Less than 1.5% of the human genome encodes protein. However, vast portions of the human genome are subject to transcriptional and epigenetic regulation, and many noncoding regulatory DNA elements are thought to regulate the spatial organization of interphase chromosomes. For example, chromosomal "loopings" are pivotal for the orderly process of gene expression, by enabling distal regulatory enhancer or silencer elements to directly interact with proximal promoter and transcription start sites, potentially bypassing hundreds of kilobases of interspersed sequence on the linear genome. To date, however, epigenetic studies in the human brain are mostly limited to the exploration of DNA methylation and posttranslational modifications of the nucleosome core histones. In contrast, very little is known about the regulation of supranucleosomal structures. Here, we show that chromosome conformation capture, a widely used approach to study higher-order chromatin, is applicable to tissue collected postmortem, thereby informing about genome organization in the human brain. We introduce chromosome conformation capture protocols for brain and compare higher-order chromatin structures at the chromosome 6p22.2-22.1 schizophrenia and bipolar disorder susceptibility locus, and additional neurodevelopmental risk genes, (DPP10, MCPH1) in adult prefrontal cortex and various cell culture systems, including neurons derived from reprogrammed skin cells. We predict that the exploration of three-dimensional genome architectures and function will open up new frontiers in human brain research and psychiatric genetics and provide novel insights into the epigenetic risk architectures of regulatory noncoding DNA.
The genomic profile of double primary secretory breast carcinoma in one patient provides evidence for the treatment of such carcinoma: A case report. Secretory breast carcinoma (SBC) is one of the rarest breast carcinomas and currently lacks a standard treatment regimen. To date, few reports on double primary SBCs have been published, especially regarding the tumors’ genomic features. A 51-year-old woman with early SBC who developed a secondary SBC in the contralateral mammary tissue 140 months later was evaluated. Here, we describe for the first time the sequencing results of a Chinese patient with nonsimultaneous double-primary SBC. In addition to the ETV6-NTRK3 fusion, variants in polymorphisms of enzymes related to drug metabolism variant genes, including BCL2L11, CYP2B6, CYP2C19, ERCC1, GSTM1, GSTP1, MTHFR, NQO1, TYMS, and XRCC, were present according to 425-gene DNA sequencing. The ETV6-NTRK3 fusion site was different between the tumors; furthermore, whole-gene exon sequencing revealed that genetic variation spectrum of the two tumors was different. A POLDIP2 mutation was found in the first tumor, and HDLBP, MMP2, PLEKHA6 and ZNF285 variants were detected in the second tumor. Our findings further our understanding of the molecular pathogenesis of SBCs, especially regarding tumors occurring at different times in one patient. Further molecular analyses of such cases are warranted to improve targeted therapies for SBC.
The helix-loop-helix Id-1 inhibits PSA expression in prostate cancer cells. The inhibitor of basic helix-loop-helix transcription factors, Id-1, is an important gene whose expression increases during prostate cancer progression and that upregulates proliferation, migration and invasion. We used microarray analysis to identify the downstream genes whose transcriptional expression is modulated by Id-1 protein. We compared gene expression in control LNCaP cells and Id-1-transduced LNCaP cells, which become significantly more aggressive after Id-1 overexpression, thus mimicking the high levels of Id-1 detected in metastatic cell lines. We used the Affy HTA U133A Expression Arrays with 45,000 probe sets representing more than 39,000 transcripts. We found that one of the most significantly downregulated genes on Id-1 expression was kallikrein 3 [also called prostate specific antigen (PSA)], the most commonly used biomarker of prostate cancer. Here, we show that the reduction in PSA mRNA and protein expression associated with high-grade prostate cancers, which generally express high levels of Id-1, could be the consequence of Id-1 overexpression.
The hinge-helix 1 region of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ1 (PPARγ1) mediates interaction with extracellular signal-regulated kinase 5 and PPARγ1 transcriptional activation: Involvement in flow-induced PPARγ activation in endothelial cells. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPAR) are ligand-activated transcription factors that form a subfamily of the nuclear receptor gene family. Since both flow and PPARγ have atheroprotective effects and extracellular signal-regulated kinase 5 (ERK5) kinase activity is significantly increased by flow, we investigated whether ERK5 kinase regulates PPARγ activity. We found that activation of ERK5 induced PPARγ1 activation in endothelial cells (ECs). However, we could not detect PPARγ phosphorylation by incubation with activated ERK5 in vitro, in contrast to ERK1/2 and JNK, suggesting a role for ERK5 as a scaffold. Endogenous PPARγ1 was coimmunoprecipitated with endogenous ERK5 in ECs. By mammalian two-hybrid analysis, we found that PPARγ1 associated with ERK5a at the hinge-helix 1 region of PPARγ1. Expressing a hinge-helix 1 region PPARγ1 fragment disrupted the ERK5a-PPARγ1 interaction, suggesting a critical role for hinge-helix 1 region of PPARγ in the ERK5-PPARγ interaction. Flow increased ERK5 and PPARγ1 activation, and the hinge-helix 1 region of the PPARγ1 fragment and dominant negative MEK5β significantly reduced flow-induced PPARγ activation. The dominant negative MEK5β also prevented flow-mediated inhibition of tumor necrosis factor alpha-mediated NF-κB activation and adhesion molecule expression, including vascular cellular adhesion molecule 1 and E-selectin, indicating a physiological role for ERK5 and PPARγ activation in flow-mediated antiinflammatory effects. We also found that ERK5 kinase activation was required, likely by inducing a conformational change in the NH2-terminal region of ERK5 that prevented association of ERK5 and PPARγ1. Furthermore, association of ERK5a and PPARγ1 disrupted the interaction of SMRT and PPARγ1, thereby inducing PPARγ activation. These data suggest that ERK5 mediates flow- and ligand-induced PPARγ activation via the interaction of ERK5 with the hinge-helix 1 region of PPARγ.
The histone variant H2A.Z interconverts two stable epigenetic chromatin states. The nucleosomes occupying the chromosomal start sites of transcription contain the histone H2A variant H2A.Z in place of H2A. Upon galactose induction, nucleosomes are evicted from the GAL1 locus in Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells. H2A.Z (which is encoded by the HTZ1 gene in S. cerevisiae) is required for the eviction of the GAL1 promoter nucleosome and for the transcriptional activation of the GAL1 gene; however, histones are also important for transcriptional repression and we asked in the present paper if H2A.Z also plays a role in the glucose repression of the GAL1 promoter. With the help of a fusion of the URA3 ORF (open reading frame) to the GAL1 promoter, we were able to detect two different epigenetic transcription states of the GAL1 promoter in glucose-grown cells lacking H2A.Z: a repressed state that is occupied by a H2A-containing nucleosome and a derepressed state that is nucleosome-free. These two chromatin states are inherited stably through many cell divisions. According to the model described in the present paper, the role of H2A.Z is to facilitate the addition and removal of promoter nucleosomes and to prevent the formation of unfavourable stable epigenetic chromatin structures, which are not in accordance with the environmental conditions.
The importance of intermediate filaments in the adaptation of tissues to mechanical stress: Evidence from gene knockout studies. Research over the past few years on the function of intermediate filaments in cells in culture has not produced convincing results, because the key role of intermediate filaments is within tissues and at certain periods of development. Only recently the technique of gene knockout has been used to examine intermediate filaments in mice and has provided the first evidence that intermediate filaments are directly involved in cell resilience and the maintenance of tissue integrity. Knockout of the gene encoding keratin K8 is lethal in the embryo, and results in hepatic or intestinal lesions, while knockout of the K14 or K10 genes leads to rupture of stratified epithelia. Knockout of the gene encoding desmin causes the rupture of skeletal and cardiac muscle, and collapse of blood vessel walls. Knockout of the gene coding for GFAP leads to a loss of cerebral white matter, and knockout of the gene coding for vimentin causes degeneration of the cerebellar Purkinje cells. The results reveal the lack of compensation by another intermediate filament. Tissues without intermediate filaments fall apart; they are mechanically unstable, unable to resist physical stress, and this leads to cell degeneration. By maintaining the shape and plasticity of the cell, the intermediate filament network acts as an integrator within the cell space. The state of mechanical force imposed on a tissue or a cell can alter the shape of certain elements of the cytoskeleton and thus participate to the control of cell functions.
The interaction between miR-148a and DNMT1 suppresses cell migration and invasion by reactivating tumor suppressor genes in pancreatic cancer. DNA methylation is an epigenetic mechanism that cells use to control gene expression, which serves an important role in tumorigenesis. DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1) is responsible for the maintenance of the pattern of DNA methylation. Overexpression of DNMT1 is observed in numerous malignant tumors, including pancreatic cancer, and results in silencing of several key tumor suppressor genes (TSGs). Recent studies have suggested that microRNAs (miRNAs/miRs) contribute to the regulation of DNMT1 expression, and promoter hypermethylation caused by DNMT1 overexpression is associated with the dysfunction of some miRNAs. The present study aimed to reveal the interaction between miR-148a and DNMT1, and its effects on cell proliferation, migration and invasion of pancreatic cancer cells. Initially, the expression levels of DNMT1 and miR-148a were detected in pancreatic cancer tissues and AsPC-1 cells by reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Secondly, the regulatory effects of DNMT1 on miR-148a were evaluated using methylation-specific PCR. Furthermore, bioinformatics analysis and dual luciferase reporter assay were used to verify the target relationship between miR-148a and DNMT1. Finally, in vitro rescue experiments were conducted to evaluate the effects of miR-148a on the expression of TSGs and the malignant phenotype in AsPC-1 cells. The results demonstrated that DNMT1 was aberrantly upregulated in pancreatic cancer, and was responsible for hypermethylation of the miR-148a promoter. Furthermore, DNMT1 was revealed as a direct target of miR-148a by dual luciferase reporter assay, and restoration of miR-148a could reactivate TSGs, such as p16, preproenkephalin and Ras association domain family member 1 by targeting DNMT1 in the AsPC-1 pancreatic cancer cell line. These results indicated that an interaction exists between miR-148a and DNMT1 in pancreatic cancer. Notably, miR-148a overexpression significantly inhibited cell proliferation, migration and invasion in AsPC-1 cells. Therefore, miR-148a may serve as a novel therapeutic target for the treatment of pancreatic cancer.
The long non-coding RNA HOXB-AS3 regulates ribosomal RNA transcription in NPM1-mutated acute myeloid leukemia. Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) are important regulatory molecules that are implicated in cellular physiology and pathology. In this work, we dissect the functional role of the HOXB-AS3 lncRNA in patients with NPM1-mutated (NPM1mut) acute myeloid leukemia (AML). We show that HOXB-AS3 regulates the proliferative capacity of NPM1mut AML blasts in vitro and in vivo. HOXB-AS3 is shown to interact with the ErbB3-binding protein 1 (EBP1) and guide EBP1 to the ribosomal DNA locus. Via this mechanism, HOXB-AS3 regulates ribosomal RNA transcription and de novo protein synthesis. We propose that in the context of NPM1 mutations, HOXB-AS3 overexpression acts as a compensatory mechanism, which allows adequate protein production in leukemic blasts.
The many faces of estrogen signaling. Estrogens have long been known as important regulators of the female reproductive functions; however, our understanding of the role estrogens play in the human body has changed significantly over the past years. It is now commonly accepted that estrogens and androgens have important functions in both female and male physiology and pathology. This is in part due to the local synthesis and action of estrogens that broadens the role of estrogen signaling beyond that of the endocrine system. Furthermore, there are several different mechanisms through which the three estrogen receptors (ERs), ERα, ERβ and G protein-coupled estrogen receptor 1 (GPER1) are able to regulate target gene transcription. ERα and ERβ are mostly associated with the direct and indirect genomic signaling pathways that result in target gene expression. Membrane-bound GPER1 is on the other hand responsible for the rapid non-genomic actions of estrogens that activate various protein-kinase cascades. Estrogen signaling is also tightly connected with another important regulatory entity, i.e. epigenetic mechanisms. Posttranslational histone modifications, microRNAs (miRNAs) and DNA methylation have been shown to influence gene expression of ERs as well as being regulated by estrogen signaling. Moreover, several coregulators of estrogen signaling also exhibit chromatin-modifying activities further underlining the importance of epigenetic mechanisms in estrogen signaling. This review wishes to highlight the newer aspects of estrogen signaling that exceed its classical endocrine regulatory role, especially emphasizing its tight intertwinement with epigenetic mechanisms.
The mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade promotes myoblast cell survival by stabilizing the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, p21WAF1 protein. During myogenesis, proliferating myoblasts withdraw from the cell cycle and are either eliminated by programmed cell death or differentiate into mature myotubes. Previous studies indicate that mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activity is significantly induced with the onset of terminal differentiation of C2 myoblasts. We have investigated the part played by the MAPK pathway in the differentiation of C2 myoblasts. Specific activation of MAPK by expression of an active Raf1-estrogen receptor chimera protein reduced significantly the number of myoblasts undergoing programmed cell death in the differentiation medium. Activation of Raf1 prevented the proteolytic activation of the proapoptotic caspase 9-protein during differentiation. The antiapoptotic function of Raf1 correlated with accumulation of the p21WAF1 protein resulting from its increased stability. Antisense expression of p21 was used to determine whether the p21WAF1 protein mediated the antiapoptotic activity of Raf1. Reduction of p21WAF1 protein in muscle cells abolished the antiapoptotic activity of the MAPK pathway. We conclude that MAPK contributes to muscle differentiation by preventing apoptotic cell death of differentiating myoblasts and that this activity is mediated by stabilization of the p21WAF1 protein.
The noncoding human genome and the future of personalised medicine. Non-coding cis-regulatory sequences act as the 'eyes' of the genome and their role is to perceive, organise and relay cellular communication information to RNA polymerase II at gene promoters. The evolution of these sequences, that include enhancers, silencers, insulators and promoters, has progressed in multicellular organisms to the extent that cis-regulatory sequences make up as much as 10% of the human genome. Parallel evidence suggests that 75% of polymorphisms associated with heritable disease occur within predicted cis-regulatory sequences that effectively alter the 'perception' of cis-regulatory sequences or render them blind to cell communication cues. Cis-regulatory sequences also act as major functional targets of epigenetic modification thus representing an important conduit through which changes in DNA-methylation affects disease susceptibility. The objectives of the current review are (1) to describe what has been learned about identifying and characterising cis-regulatory sequences since the sequencing of the human genome; (2) to discuss their role in interpreting cell signalling pathways pathways; and (3) outline how this role may be altered by polymorphisms and epigenetic changes. We argue that the importance of the cis-regulatory genome for the interpretation of cellular communication pathways cannot be overstated and understanding its role in health and disease will be critical for the future development of personalised medicine.
The novel lysine specific methyltransferase METTL21B affects mRNA translation through inducible and dynamic methylation of Lys-165 in human eukaryotic elongation factor 1 alpha (eEF1A). Lysine methylation is abundant on histone proteins, representing a dynamic regulator of chromatin state and gene activity, but is also frequent on many nonhistone proteins, including eukaryotic elongation factor 1 alpha (eEF1A). However, the functional significance of eEF1Amethylation remains obscure and it has remained unclear whether eEF1A methylation is dynamic and subject to active regulation. We here demonstrate, using a wide range of in vitro and in vivo approaches, that the previously uncharacterized human methyltransferase METTL21B specifically targets Lys-165 in eEF1A in an aminoacyl-tRNA- and GTP-dependent manner. Interestingly, METTL21Bmediated eEF1A methylation showed strong variation across different tissues and cell lines, and was induced by altering growth conditions or by treatment with certain ER-stress-inducing drugs, concomitant with an increase in METTL21B gene expression. Moreover, genetic ablation of METTL21B function in mammalian cells caused substantial alterations in mRNA translation, as measured by ribosomal profiling. A non-canonical function for eEF1A in organization of the cellular cytoskeleton has been reported, and interestingly, METTL21B accumulated in centrosomes, in addition to the expected cytosolic localization. In summary, the present study identifies METTL21B as the enzyme responsible for methylation of eEF1A on Lys-165 and shows that this modification is dynamic, inducible and likely of regulatory importance.
The nuclear signaling of NF-κB: Current knowledge, new insights, and future perspectives. The nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) transcription factor plays a critical role in diverse cellular processes associated with proliferation, cell death, development, as well as innate and adaptive immune responses. NF-κB is normally sequestered in the cytoplasm by a family of inhibitory proteins known as inhibitors of NF-κB (IκBs). The signal pathways leading to the liberation and nuclear accumulation of NF-κB, which can be activated by a wide variety of stimuli, have been extensively studied in the past two decades. After gaining access to the nucleus, NF-κB must be actively regulated to execute its fundamental function as a transcription factor. Recent studies have highlighted the importance of nuclear signaling in the regulation of NF-κB transcriptional activity. A non-Rel subunit of NF-κB, ribosomal protein S3 (RPS3), and numerous other nuclear regulators of NF-κB, including Akirin, Nurr1, SIRT6, and others, have recently been identified, unveiling novel and exciting layers of regulatory specificity for NF-κB in the nucleus. Further insights into the nuclear events that govern NF-κB function will deepen our understanding of the elegant control of its transcriptional activity and better inform the potential rational design of therapeutics for NF-κB-associated diseases.
The orchestrated expression of genes is of universal importance for every organism. The orchestrated expression of genes is of universal importance for organism. In addition to the role of transcription factors, the availability of genes for transcription is controlled by a series of proteins that regulate epigenetic chromatin remodeling. The two most studied epigenetic phenomena are DNA-methylation and histone-tail modifications. The basic amino-terminal tails of histones carry diverse posttranslational modifications, such as acetylation, methylation and ubiquitination, which build up discrete patterns of chemical marks recognized and bound by other proteins. A large body of literature shows that deregulation of histone-acetylation and DNA methylation is implicated with cancer. Recently epigenetic mechanisms have also gained much attention in the neuroscientific community and a new field of research is emerging. There is now accumulating evidence that the molecular machinery that regulates histone-acetylation and DNA methylation is intimately involved in synaptic plasticity and memory formation. Importantly, dysfunction of epigenetic gene expression might be involved in neurodegenerative and psychiatric diseases. In particular, it was shown that histone-deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors attenuate neuronal loss in animal models for Huntington's disease, or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and also facilitate synaptic plasticity in wild type mice or in mouse models for Alzheimer's disease, even in an already degenerated brain. This data suggests that treatment targeted to epigenetic gene-expression can have multiple beneficial effects: Promotion of neuronal survival and the regeneration of the neuronal network after substantial brain atrophy has already occurred. In this article I will summarize recent data in the novel field of neuroepigenetics and discuss the question why epigenetic strategies may prove a beneficial therapeutic approach for the treatment of various brain diseases.
The promiscuity of the SAGA complex subunits: Multifunctional or moonlighting proteins?. Gene expression, the decoding of DNA information into accessible instructions for protein synthesis, is a complex process in which multiple steps, including transcription, mRNA processing and mRNA export, are regulated by different factors. One of the first steps in this process involves chemical and structural changes in chromatin to allow transcription. For such changes to occur, histone tail and DNA epigenetic modifications foster the binding of transcription factors to promoter regions. The SAGA coactivator complex plays a crucial role in this process by mediating histone acetylation through Gcn5, and histone deubiquitination through Ubp8 enzymes. However, most SAGA subunits interact physically with other proteins beyond the SAGA complex. These interactions could represent SAGA-independent functions or a mechanism to widen SAGA multifunctionality. Among the different mechanisms to perform more than one function, protein moonlighting defines unrelated molecular activities for the same polypeptide sequence. Unlike pleiotropy, where a single gene can affect different phenotypes, moonlighting necessarily involves separate functions of a protein at the molecular level. In this review we describe in detail some of the alternative physical interactions of several SAGA subunits. In some cases, the alternative role constitutes a clear moonlighting function, whereas in most of them the lack of molecular evidence means that we can only define these interactions as promiscuous that require further work to verify if these are moonlighting functions.
The promoter of the human proliferating cell nuclear antigen gene is not sufficient for cell cycle-dependent regulation in organotypic cultures of keratinocytes. The proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) is essential for DNA replication of mammalian cells and their small DNA tumor viruses. The mechanism of the cell cycle-dependent regulation of the human PCNA promoter is not clear despite extensive investigations. In this report, we employed organotypic cultures of primary human keratinocytes, which closely resemble native skin comprising both proliferating and postmitotic, differentiated cells, to examine the cell cycle-dependent regulation of the human PCNA gene (hPCNA) in the absence or presence of the human papillomavirus type 18 (HPV-18) E7 protein. HPV-18 E7 promotes S phase re-entry in post-mitotic differentiated keratinocytes by abrogating the transcription repression of E2F transcription factors by the retinoblastoma susceptibility protein, pRb. We demonstrated that E7 reactivated the transcription of the endogenous hPCNA in differentiated keratinocytes. In contrast, with or without E7, the expression of a transduced hPCNA promoter-driven reporter did not correlate with that of the endogenous hPCNA gene in either proliferating or differentiated cells. Moreover, in Chinese hamster ovary and L-cells, HPV E7 and the adenovirus E1A protein repressed the transduced hPCNA promoter, but both activated an extended promoter construct spanning the first intron. Mutations of two E2F sites in the intron reduced the basal activity and abolished the response to E7 or E1A. Promoter repression or activation required the CR2 domain of E7 and, to a lesser extent, CR1 as well. However, in organotypic cultures, this extended promoter construct failed to recapitulate the cell cycle-dependent regulation of the endogenous hPCNA gene. Only when a full-length Myc-tagged hPCNA spanning the 5′ promoter and all exons and introns was used was the native pattern of expression largely restored, indicative of the complexity of its regulation.
The recombination signal sequence-binding protein RBP-2N functions as a transcriptional repressor. We have identified a cellular protein, RBP-2N, a presumed recombinase, as a repressor of transcription. Inhibition of transcription by RBP-2N was dependent on its DNA recognition site and was demonstrated in vitro and in vivo. This repression appears to be general, as transcription mediated by SP1 and Gal4/VP16 was inhibited by RBP-2N. The protein was purified to near homogeneity from human cells on the basis of its binding to a site present in the promoter of the adenovirus pIX gene. The DNA recognition sequence is 5'- TGGGAAAGAA, which is markedly different from the recombination signal sequence originally identified as the target site for this protein. The sequence of the purified protein is 97% identical with that published for the mouse RBP-2N protein. The reported homolog in Drosophila is Suppressor of Hairless. RBP-2N binding sites are present in a number of cellular and viral promoters, so RBP-2N may have a general role in transcriptional repression.
The role of PHF8 and TLR4 in osteogenic differentiation of periodontal ligament cells in inflammatory environment. Background: Histone methylation is considered to play an important role in the occurrence and development of periodontitis. Plant homeodomain finger protein 8 (PHF8), a histone demethylase, has been shown to regulate inflammation and osteogenic differentiation of bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs). This study aimed to detect the functions of PHF8 and TLR4 in osteogenic differentiation in an inflammatory environment induced by Porphyromonas gingivalis lipopolysaccharide (Pg-LPS). Methods: A periodontitis mouse model was established, and the mice were treated with TAK-242. Immunohistochemical staining was used to detect the expression of PHF8 in periodontal tissue. Periodontal ligament cells (PDLCs) were treated with mineralization induction medium supplemented with Pg-LPS and/or TAK-242, and a Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) assay was used to detect the proliferation of PDLCs. Real-time PCR and western blotting were used to detect the mRNA and protein expression levels, respectively, of PHF8, toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) and the other osteogenic markers alkaline phosphatase (ALP), osteocalcin (OCN), Special AT-rich sequence-binding protein 2 (Satb2) and Runt-related transcription factor 2 (Runx2). Results: Periodontitis reduced PHF8 expression in periodontal tissue, and TAK-242 partially reversed this downregulation. An in vitro experiment revealed that the mRNA and protein expression levels of PHF8 were significantly upregulated during the osteogenic differentiation of PDLCs. Alizarin red staining showed that the mineralized nodules of PDLCs in osteogenic induction group were more than those in control group. Real-time PCR and western blot results indicated that Pg-LPS inhibited PHF8 expression and upregulated TLR4 expression in PDLCs. TAK-242 inhibited TLR4 and partially reversed the inhibition of PHF8 expression and osteogenic differentiation induced by Pg-LPS in PDLCs. Conclusion: PHF8 and TLR4 play important roles in periodontitis. Pg-LPS inhibits the expression of PHF8 via upregulation of TLR4 and might further inhibit the osteogenic differentiation of PDLCs. However, the specific mechanisms involved remain to be explored.
The role of histone modification and a regulatory single-nucleotide polymorphism (rs2071166) in the Cx43 promoter in patients with TOF. Abnormal level of Cx43 expression could result in CHD. Epigenetic modification and disease-associated, non-coding SNPs might influence gene transcription and expression. Our study aimed to determine the role of histone modification and an rSNP (rs2071166) in the Cx43 promoter in patients with TOF. Our results indicate that H3K18ac bind to Cx43 promoter and that their levels are reduced in TOF patients relative to controls. The relationship between the non-coding SNP in the Cx43 gene and TOF patients was evaluated in 158 patients and 300 controls. The C allele of rs2071166 was confirmed to result in an increased risk of TOF (OR = 1.586, 95%CI 1.149-2.189). Individuals with the CC genotype at rs2071166 also showed a significant susceptibility to TOF (OR = 2.961, 95%CI 1.452-6.038). The mRNA level in TOF who were CC genotype was lower than that in patients with the AA/AC genotype. Functional analysis in cells and transgenic zebrafish models showed that rs2071166 decreased the activity of the promoter and could block the interaction between RXRα and RARE. This is the first study to illustrate that epigenetic modification and an rSNP in the Cx43 promoter region play a critical role in TOF by impacting the transcriptional activity and expression level of Cx43.
The role of nerve growth factor in the CNS. In contrast to the peripheral nervous system, catecholaminergic neurons in the central nervous system do not respond to nerve growth factor (NGF). However, the cholinergic magnocellular neurons of the basal forebrain do respond to exogenous NGF by producing increased levels of the enzyme choline acetyltransferase (CAT). In addition, levels of endogenous NGF in brain are highest in those regions where the cell bodies or terminals of magnocellular cholinergic neurons are located. NGF mRNA is only found in the regions to which these neurons project, indicating that their target areas synthesize NGF that is then taken up and transported retrogradely to the magnocellular perikarya. NGF may also support other CNS neurons, such as the striatal cholinergic interneurons. Reduction in NGF levels may possibly be involved in the development of certain dementias such as Alzheimer's disease.
The role of recombinational hotspots in genome instability in mammalian cells. Genome instability has been associated with progression of transformed cells to high tumorigenicity. Although genome instability may result from a variety of factors, some studies suggest that DNA in the region of a chromosome rearrangement can subsequently have much higher rates of DNA deletions or gene amplification. One approach to studying the factors that produce these high rates of DNA rearrangement is by analysis of unstable integration sites for DNA transfected into mammalian cells. Integrated sequences commonly show a temporary instability, and at rare locations this instability is continuous and can be observed even after multiple subclonings. These continuously unstable locations undergo DNA amplification of both the integrated sequences and the surrounding cell DNA, and it can occur either at the original site or on episomes after looping out from the chromosome. Because the adjacent cell DNA plays a role in this instability, and the region can be shown to be stable before integration, the results indicate that these recombinational hotspots can be formed de novo by the process of integration. Current studies are attempting to determine which sequences are responsible for the high rates of recombination and whether similar types of event are involved in the instability associated with endogenous cellular genes in cancer cells.
The roles of DNA methylation and hydroxymethylation at short interspersed nuclear elements in the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus during puberty. Puberty is the gateway to adult reproductive competence, encompassing a suite of complex, integrative, and coordinated changes in neuroendocrine functions. However, the regulatory mechanisms of transcriptional reprogramming in the arcuate nucleus (ARC) during onset of puberty are still not fully understood. To understand the role of epigenetics in regulating gene expression, mouse hypothalamic ARCs were isolated at 4 and 8 weeks, and the transcriptome, DNA hydroxymethylation, DNA methylation, and chromatin accessibility were assessed via RNA sequencing (RNA-seq), reduced representation bisulfite sequencing (RRBS-seq), reduced representation hydroxymethylation profiling (RRHP)-seq, and assay for transposase-accessible chromatin (ATAC-seq), respectively. The overall DNA hydroxymethylation and DNA methylation changes in retroelements (REs) were associated with gene expression modeling for puberty in the ARC. We focused on analyzing DNA hydroxymethylation and DNA methylation at two short interspersed nuclear elements (SINEs) located on the promoter of the 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 6 (Htr6) gene and the enhancer of the KISS-1 metastasis suppressor (Kiss1) gene and investigated their regulatory roles in gene expression. Our data uncovered a novel epigenetic mechanism by which SINEs regulate gene expression during puberty.
The roles of supernumerical X chromosomes and XIST expression in testicular germ cell tumors. Purpose: An overabundance of X chromosomes in testicular germ cell tumors and the identification of the candidate testicular germ cell tumor susceptibility gene TGCT1 on Xq27 highlight the potential involvement of X chromosomes in testicular germ cell tumor pathogenesis. The current study was designed to shed light on the question whether the multiple X chromosomes in testicular germ cell tumor are active or inactive through a complex mechanism of X chromosomal gain and XIST expression. Materials and Methods: We analyzed 4 testicular germ cell tumor derived cell lines and 20 primary testicular germ cell tumor tissues. The number of X chromosomes was determined by fluorescence in situ hybridization using the X chromosome specific probe. The expression patterns of XIST and the 3 X-linked genes androgen receptor (AR), fragile X mental retardation (FMR1) and Glypican 3 (GPC3) were studied by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. Bisulfite genomic sequencing was used to analyze the methylation patterns of the AR, FMR1 and GPC3 genes. The relative expression levels of the 2 X-linked proto-oncogenes ARAF1 and ELK1 were assayed by quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. Results: XIST expression was common in seminomatous testicular germ cell tumors (2 of 2 or 100% of seminoma derived cell lines and 10 of 12 or 83% of seminomatous testicular germ cell tumor tissues) but not in nonseminomatous testicular germ cell tumors (0 of 2 or 0% nonseminoma derived cell lines and 2 of 8 or 25% of nonseminomatous testicular germ cell tumor tissues). However, X chromosomal gain was consistently observed in the 2 types of tumors. XIST expression in testicular germ cell tumors and normal testicular parenchyma was not associated with methylation of the AR, FMR1 or GPC3 genes. After determining the expression patterns of AR, FMR1 and GPC3 in testicular germ cell tumor samples we concluded that multiple X chromosomes in testicular germ cell tumors were predominantly hypomethylated and active regardless of XIST expression. The biological significance of excess active X chromosomes in testicular germ cell tumors was suggested by enhanced expression of the 2 X-linked oncogenes ARAF1 and ELK1 in the testicular germ cell tumor derived cell lines. Conclusions: The current data may suggest the potential oncogenic implications of X chromosomal gain in testicular germ cell tumors.
The splicing regulator SLU7 is required to preserve DNMT1 protein stability and DNA methylation. Gene expression is finely and dynamically controlled through the tightly coordinated and interconnected activity of epigenetic modulators, transcription and splicing factors and post-translational modifiers. We have recently identified the splicing factor SLU7 as essential for maintaining liver cell identity and genome integrity and for securing cell division both trough transcriptional and splicing mechanisms. Now we uncover a new function of SLU7 controlling gene expression at the epigenetic level. We show that SLU7 is required to secure DNMT1 protein stability and a correct DNA methylation. We demonstrate that SLU7 is part in the chromatome of the protein complex implicated in DNA methylation maintenance interacting with and controlling the integrity of DNMT1, its adaptor protein UHRF1 and the histone methyl-transferase G9a at the chromatin level. Mechanistically, we found that SLU7 assures DNMT1 stability preventing its acetylation and degradation by facilitating its interaction with HDAC1 and the desubiquitinase USP7. Importantly, we demonstrate that this DNMT1 dependency on SLU7 occurs in a large panel of proliferating cell lines of different origins and in in vivo models of liver proliferation. Overall, our results uncover a novel and non-redundant role of SLU7 in DNA methylation and present SLU7 as a holistic regulator of gene expression.
The synthetic histone-binding regulator protein PcTF activates interferon genes in breast cancer cells. Background: Mounting evidence from genome-wide studies of cancer shows that chromatin-mediated epigenetic silencing at large cohorts of genes is strongly linked to a poor prognosis. This mechanism is thought to prevent cell differentiation and enable evasion of the immune system. Drugging the cancer epigenome with small molecule inhibitors to release silenced genes from the repressed state has emerged as a powerful approach for cancer research and drug development. Targets of these inhibitors include chromatin-modifying enzymes that can acquire drug-resistant mutations. In order to directly target a generally conserved feature, elevated trimethyl-lysine 27 on histone H3 (H3K27me3), we developed the Polycomb-based Transcription Factor (PcTF), a fusion activator that targets methyl-histone marks via its N-terminal H3K27me3-binding motif, and co-regulates sets of silenced genes. Results: Here, we report transcriptome profiling analyses of PcTF-treated breast cancer model cell lines. We identified a set of 19 PcTF-upregulated genes, or PUGs, that were consistent across three distinct breast cancer cell lines. These genes areassociated with the interferon response pathway. Conclusions: Our results demonstrate for the first time a chromatin-mediated interferon-related transcriptional response driven by an engineered fusion protein that physically links repressive histone marks with active transcription.
The tRNA-derived fragment 5026a inhibits the proliferation of gastric cancer cells by regulating the PTEN/PI3K/AKT signaling pathway. Background: Recently, tRNA-derived fragments (tRFs) have been shown to serve important biological functions. However, the role of tRFs in gastric cancer has not been fully elucidated. This study aimed to identify the tumor suppressor role of tRF-5026a (tRF-18-79MP9P04) in gastric cancer. Methods: Quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) was first used to detect tRF-5026a expression levels in gastric cancer tissues and patient plasma. Next, the relationship between tRF-5026a levels and clinicopathological features in gastric cancer patients was assessed. Cell lines with varying tRF-5026a levels were assessed by measuring tRF-5026a using qRT-PCR. After transfecting cell lines with a tRF-5026a mimic or inhibitor, cell proliferation, colony formation, migration, apoptosis, and cell cycle were evaluated. The expression levels of related proteins in the PTEN/PI3K/AKT pathway were also analyzed by Western blotting. Finally, the effect of tRF-5026a on tumor growth was tested using subcutaneous tumor models in nude mice. Results: tRF-5026a was downregulated in gastric cancer patient tissues and plasma samples. tRF-5026a levels were closely related to tumor size, had a certain diagnostic value, and could be used to predict overall survival. tRF-5026a was also downregulated in gastric cancer cell lines. tRF-5026a inhibited the proliferation, migration, and cell cycle progression of gastric cancer cells by regulating the PTEN/PI3K/AKT signaling pathway. Animal experiments showed that upregulation of tRF-5026a effectively inhibited tumor growth. Conclusions: tRF-5026a (tRF-18-79MP9P04) is a promising biomarker for gastric cancer diagnostics and has tumor suppressor effects mediated through the PTEN/PI3K/AKT signaling pathway.
The telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT) gene is a direct target of the histone methyltransferase SMYD3. Recent evidence has accumulated that the dynamic histone methylation mediated by histone methyltransferases and demethylases plays key roles in regulation of chromatin structure and transcription. In the present study, we show that SET and MYND domain-containing protein 3 (SMYD3), a histone methyltransferase implicated in oncogenesis, directly trans-activates the telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT) gene that is essential for cellular immortalization and transformation. SMYD3 occupies its binding motifs on the hTERT promoter and is required for maintenance of histone H3-K4 trimethylation, thereby contributing to inducible and constitutive hTERT expression in normal and malignant human cells. Knocking down SMYD3 in tumor cells abolished trimethylation of H3-K4, attenuated the occupancy by the transactivators c-MYC and Sp1, and led to diminished histone H3 acetylation in the hTERT promoter region, which was coupled with down-regulation of hTERT mRNA and telomerase activity. These results suggest that SMYD3-mediated trimethylation of H3-K4 functions as a licensing element for subsequent transcription factor binding to the hTERT promoter. The present findings provide significant insights into regulatory mechanisms of hTERT/telomerase expression; moreover, identification of the hTERT gene as a direct target of SMYD3 contributes to a better understanding of SMYD3-mediated cellular transformation.
The transcriptional co-activator NCOA6 promotes estrogeninduced GREB1 transcription by recruiting ERα and enhancing enhancer-promoter interactions. Estrogen and its cognate receptor, ERα, regulate cell proliferation, differentiation, and carcinogenesis in the endometrium by controlling gene transcription. ERα requires co-activators to mediate transcription via mechanisms that are largely uncharacterized. Herein, using growth-regulating estrogen receptor binding 1 (GREB1) as an ERα target gene in Ishikawa cells, we demonstrate that nuclear receptor co-activator 6 (NCOA6) is essential for estradiol (E2)/ERα-activated GREB1 transcription. We found that NCOA6 associates with the GREB1 promoter and enhancer in an E2-independent manner and that NCOA6 knockout reduces chromatin looping, enhancer- promoter interactions, and basal GREB1 expression in the absence of E2. In the presence of E2, ERα bound the GREB1 enhancer and also associated with its promoter, and p300, myeloid/ lymphoid or mixed-lineage leukemia protein 4 (MLL4), and RNA polymerase II were recruited to the GREB1 enhancer and promoter. Consequently, the levels of the histone modifications H3K4me1/3, H3K9ac, and H3K27ac were significantly increased; enhancer and promoter regions were transcribed; and GREB1 mRNA was robustly transcribed. NCOA6 knockout reduced ERα recruitment and abolished all of the aforementioned E2-induced events, making GREB1 completely insensitive to E2 induction. We also found that GREB1-deficient Ishikawa cells are much more resistant to chemotherapy and that human endometrial cancers with low GREB1 expression predict poor overall survival. These results indicate thatNCOA6 has an essential role in ERα-mediated transcription by increasing enhancer-promoter interactions through chromatin looping and by recruiting RNA polymerase II and the histone-code modifiers p300 and MLL4. Moreover, GREB1 loss may predict chemoresistance of endometrial cancer.
The tyrosine phosphatase Shp2 (PTPN11) directs neuregulin-1/ErbB signaling throughout Schwann cell development. The nonreceptor tyrosine phosphatase Shp2 (PTPN11) has been implicated in tyrosine kinase, cytokine, and integrin receptor signaling. We show here that conditional mutation of Shp2 in neural crest cells and in myelinating Schwann cells resulted in deficits in glial development that are remarkably similar to those observed in mice mutant for Neuregulin-1 (Nrg1) or the Nrg1 receptors, ErbB2 and ErbB3. In cultured Shp2 mutant Schwann cells, Nrg1-evoked cellular responses like proliferation and migration were virtually abolished, and Nrg1-dependent intracellular signaling was altered. Pharmacological inhibition of Src family kinases mimicked all cellular and biochemical effects of the Shp2 mutation, implicating Src as a primary Shp2 target during Nrg1 signaling. Together, our genetic and biochemical analyses demonstrate that Shp2 is an essential component in the transduction of Nrg1/ErbB signals.
The κB enhancer of the human interleukin-6 promoter is necessary and sufficient to confer an IL-1β and TNF-α response in transfected human cell lines: Requirement for members of the C/EBP family for activity. The human interleukin-6 (IL-6) promoter contains two regulatory elements, a κB enhancer and a NFIL-6 (C/EBPβ) binding site, which have been reported to be essential for inducibility of the IL-6 gene. We show that the κB element alone is sufficient to confer inducibility on the IL-6 gene in cells treated with either IL-1β or TNF-α. Gel-retardation analysis of nuclear extracts from IL-1β or TNF-α-treated cells using specific antibodies has shown that at least five retarded complexes bind to the IL- 6κB element in addition to NF-κB. Furthermore, apart from p50 (NF-κB1) and p65 (RelA), no other members of the Rel family are present in these complexes. Comparative analysis with the κB enhancer of the immunoglobulin κ chain gene shows that three of these complexes bind specifically to the IL-6κB enhancer: a complex of p50/NFIL6, a p65 homodimer, and a non-Rel- related constitutive protein. Finally, transfection experiments, in which NF- κB subunits, NFIL-6, and NFIL-6β (C/EBPδ), were overexpressed in cells transfected with mutated IL-6 enhancer elements linked to a reporter gene show that interaction between members of the two families of factors is required for activation of the IL-6 gene in the absence of the NFIL-6 binding site. We conclude that the κB enhancer of the IL-6 promoter is the IL-1β and TNF-α responsive element and that its activity is dependent on the direct interaction of NF-κB with non-Rel transcription factors.
Theobroma cacao improves bone growth by modulating defective ciliogenesis in a mouse model of achondroplasia. A gain-of-function mutation in the fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 gene (FGFR3) results in achondroplasia (ACH), the most frequent form of dwarfism. Constitutive activation of FGFR3 impairs bone formation and elongation and many signal transduction pathways. Identification of new and relevant compounds targeting the FGFR3 signaling pathway is of broad importance for the treatment of ACH, and natural plant compounds are prime drug candidate sources. Here, we found that the phenolic compound (-)-epicatechin, isolated from Theobroma cacao, effectively inhibited FGFR3’s downstream signaling pathways. Transcriptomic analysis in an Fgfr3 mouse model showed that ciliary mRNA expression was modified and influenced significantly by the Indian hedgehog and PKA pathways. (-)-Epicatechin is able to rescue mRNA expression impairments that control both the structural organization of the primary cilium and ciliogenesis-related genes. In femurs isolated from a mouse model (Fgfr3Y367C/+) of ACH, we showed that (-)-epicatechin eliminated bone growth impairment during 6 days of ex vivo culture. In vivo, we confirmed that daily subcutaneous injections of (-)-epicatechin to Fgfr3Y367C/+ mice increased bone elongation and rescued the primary cilium defects observed in chondrocytes. This modification to the primary cilia promoted the typical columnar arrangement of flat proliferative chondrocytes and thus enhanced bone elongation. The results of the present proof-of-principle study support (-)-epicatechin as a potential drug for the treatment of ACH.
Three-dimensional collagen regulates collagen gene expression by a mechanism that requires serine/threonine kinases and is independent of mechanical contraction. Integrin α1β1, one of the cellular collagen receptors, can participate in the regulation of collagen accumulation by acting as a negative feedback regulator. The molecular mechanism behind this phenomenon has been unknown. We have plated cells inside three-dimensional collagen and analyzed a set of chemical inhibitors for various signal transduction pathways. Only two wide-spectrum serine/threonine kinase inhibitors, H-7 and iso-H-7 could prevent the down-regulation of α1(I) collagen mRNA levels in cells exposed to three-dimensional collagen. In monolayer isoH-7 slightly down-regulated collagen gene expression, indicating that inside collagen it affected integrin signaling rather than having a direct stimulatory effect on collagen mRNA levels. The effect of iso-H-7 was not dependent on its ability to inhibit protein kinases A, C, or G. H-7 and iso-H-7 could also inhibit collagen gel contraction, but this mechanism was independent of collagen gene regulation. Three-dimensional collagen could also up-regulate the mRNA levels of several matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) but H-7 and iso-H-7 had no effect on the regulation of MMP genes. Our data indicate that three-dimensional collagenous matrix regulates distinct cellular signaling pathways and that collagen gene regulation is independent of the other effects of the matrix.
Three-dimensional regulation of transcription. Cells can adapt to environment and development by reconstructing their transcriptional networks to regulate diverse cellular processes without altering the underlying DNA sequences. These alterations, namely epigenetic changes, occur during cell division, differentiation and cell death. Numerous evidences demonstrate that epigenetic changes are governed by various types of determinants, including DNA methylation patterns, histone posttranslational modification signatures, histone variants, chromatin remodeling, and recently discovered chromosome conformation characteristics and non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs). Here, we highlight recent efforts on how the two latter epigenetic factors participate in the sophisticated transcriptional process and describe emerging techniques which permit us to uncover and gain insights into the fascinating genomic regulation.
Thyrotropin regulates thyroid cell proliferation by up-regulating miR-23b and miR-29b that target SMAD3. Context: MicroRNA (miRNA or miR) have emerged as an important class of short endogenous RNA that act as post-transcriptional regulators of gene expression and have a critical role in cell proliferation and differentiation. Objectives: The aim of this study was to elucidate the role of miRNA in the proliferation of differentiated thyroid cells that require TSH for their growth. Design: To elucidate the role of miRNA in thyroid cell proliferation, we have analyzed the miRNA expression profile of PC Cl 3 cells before and after the stimulation by TSH. Results: We report the identification of two specific miRNA (miR-23b and miR-29b) whose upregulation by TSH is required for thyroid cell growth. We identified mothers against decapentaplegic homolog 3 (Smad3), a member of the TGF-β pathway that has an inhibitor role in thyroid follicular cell proliferation as a target of miR-23b and miR-29b. Functional studies demonstrated that the overexpression of miR-23b and miR-29b promotes thyroid cell growth. Interestingly, an increased expression of both these miRNA was also detected in experimental and human goiters. Conclusions: These findings support the idea that the regulation of miRNA expression synergizes with the traditional proliferation pathways in promoting cell growth.
Tissue factor pathway inhibitor expression in atherosclerosis. Tissue factor pathway inhibitor (TFPI) is a potent inhibitor of tissue factor (TF) -initiated coagulation and may play a role in regulating coagulation in atherosclerotic plaques. The expression of TFPI protein and mRNA was examined by immunohistology and in situ hybridization in normal human and rabbit arteries in human carotid arteries with advanced atherosclerosis, and in atherosclerotic aortas from cholesterol-fed rabbits. In normal human and rabbit arteries, TFPI protein and mRNA were detected in the adventitial layer but were undetectable in the luminal endothelium. In the medial smooth muscle layer of rabbits, weak expression of TFPI mRNA, but not protein, was detected; in that of humans, neither TFPI mRNA nor protein was detectable. In atherosclerotic arteries, TFPI protein and mRNA were detected in three of six internal carotid plaques from patients undergoing endarterectomy, and mRNA alone was detected in one further specimen. TFPI protein was found in areas of the plaque where TF was abundant and colocalized with macrophages, suggesting that these cells are responsible for TFPI synthesis. TFPI protein and mRNA were also detected in fatty-streak lesions in 18 of 19 rabbits fed a high-cholesterol diet for periods between 4 and 16 weeks. In these macrophage-rich lesions, expression of TFPI protein and mRNA was most intense at the base of the plaques. These studies suggest that TFPI is expressed in the adventitial layer of large arteries and that in atherosclerotic vessels, TFPI is expressed by macrophages in focal areas throughout the plaque. Local production of TFPI may regulate procoagulant activity and thrombotic events within atherosclerotic plaques.
Tissue-specific and transcription-dependent mechanisms regulate primary microRNA processing efficiency of the human chromosome 19 MicroRNA cluster. One of the longest human microRNA (miRNA) clusters is located on chromosome 19 (C19MC), containing 46 miRNA genes, which were considered to be expressed simultaneously and at similar levels from a common long noncoding transcript. Investigating the two tissue types where C19MC is exclusively expressed, we could show that there is a tissue-specific and chromosomal position-dependent decrease in mature miRNA levels towards the 3ʹ end of the cluster in embryonic stem cells but not in placenta. Although C19MC transcription level is significantly lower in stem cells, this gradual decrease is not present at the primary miRNA levels, indicating that a difference in posttranscriptional processing could explain this observation. By depleting Drosha, the nuclease component of the Microprocessor complex, we could further enhance the positional decrease in stem cells, demonstrating that a tissue-specific, local availability of the Microprocessor complex could lie behind the phenomenon. Moreover, we could describe a tissue-specific promoter being exclusively active in placenta, and the epigenetic mark analysis suggested the presence of several putative enhancer sequences in this region. Performing specific chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by quantitative real-time PCR experiments we could show a strong association of Drosha with selected enhancer regions in placenta, but not in embryonic stem cells. These enhancers could provide explanation for a more efficient co-transcriptional recruitment of the Microprocessor, and therefore a more efficient processing of pri-miRNAs throughout the cluster in placenta. Our results point towards a new model where tissue-specific, posttranscriptional ‘fine-tuning’ can differentiate among miRNAs that are expressed simultaneously from a common precursor.
Toll-like receptor agonists and febrile range hyperthermia synergize to induce heat shock protein 70 expression and extracellular release. Heat shock protein (Hsp) 70 expression can be stimulated by febrile range temperature (FRT). Hsp70 has been shown to be elevated in serum of patients with sepsis, and when released from cells, extracellular Hsp70 exerts endotoxin-like effects through Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) receptors. Circulating TLR agonists and fever both persist for the first several days of sepsis, and each can activate Hsp70 expression; however, the effect of combined exposure to FRT and TLR agonists on Hsp70 expression is unknown. We found that concurrent exposure to FRT (39.5 °C) and agonists for TLR4 (LPS), TLR2 (Pam3Cys), or TLR3 (poly(IC)) synergized to increase Hsp70 expression and extracellular release in RAW264.7 macrophages. The increase in Hsp70 expression was associated with activation of p38 and ERK MAP kinases, phosphorylation of histone H3, and increased recruitment of HSF1 to the Hsp70 promoter. Pretreatment with the p38 MAPK inhibitor SB283580 but not the ERK pathway inhibitor UO126 significantly reduced Hsp70 gene modification and Hsp70 expression in RAW cells co-exposed to LPS and FRT. In mice challenged with intratracheal LPS and then exposed to febrile range hyperthermia (core temperature, ~39.5 °C), Hsp70 levels in lung tissue and in cell-free lung lavage were increased compared with mice exposed to either hyperthermia or LPS alone. We propose a model of how enhanced Hsp70 expression and extracellular release in patients concurrently exposed to fever and TLR agonists may contribute to the pathogenesis of sepsis.
Tp53bp2 decreases cell proliferation and induces autophagy in neuroblastoma cell lines. Tumor protein p53-binding protein 2 (TP53BP2), a member of the apoptosis-stimulating protein of p53 (ASPP) family, has previously been reported to be associated with tumor development. However, to the best of our knowledge, the role of TP53BP2 in neuroblastoma has not been elucidated. The aim of the present study was to investigate the function of TP53BP2 in the proliferation and autophagy of neuroblastoma. An expression vector that expresses TP53BP2-specific short hairpin RNA (shTP53BP2) was used for the experimental group and green fluorescent protein short hairpin RNA was used as a control. Cell proliferation was measured using MTT assays, self-renewal was evaluated using soft agar assays, light chain 3 (LC3) II expression level was examined by western blot and immunofluorescence analysis, and the autophagy-related 3 homolog (ATG3), autophagy-related 5 homolog (ATG5) and autophagy-related 9 homolog (ATG7) expression levels were examined using the reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR). A genomics analysis revealed that TP53BP2 expression was associated with the survival of patients with neuroblastoma. Western blot and RT-qPCR assays indicated that TP53BP2 could be implicated in neuroblastoma, as the proliferative ability of the experimental group decreased compared with that of the control group (P<0.001) and the expression levels of genes associated with autophagy, including LC3 II. ATG3, ATG5 and ATG7, increased in the experimental group. In conclusion, an increased expression of TP53BP2 in patients with neuroblastoma may be associated with poor survival and shTP53BP2 may decrease the proliferative abilities of neuroblastoma cells, including BE(2)C and SK-N-DZ cell lines. In addition, the LC3 II, ATG3, ATG5 and ATG7 expression levels increased and were associated with increased rates of autophagy following upregulation of TP53BP2.
Transcription factor 7-like 2 gene- smoking interaction on the risk of diabetic nephropathy in Chinese Han population. Objectives: To evaluate the relationship between transcription factor 7-like 2 (TCF7L2) gene polymorphism and diabetic nephropathy (DN) risk, as well as the effect of gene-environment interactions on DN risk in Chinese Han population. Methods: The Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium (HWE) and the relationship between TCF7L2 gene single nucleotide polymorphism (SNPs) and DN susceptibility were evaluated by SNPStats. The interaction among four SNPs and environmental factors were tested by generalized multifactor dimensionality reduction (GMDR). The consistency of cross validation, accuracy of test balance and sign test were calculated to evaluate the interaction of each selection. The logistic regression was used to test the interaction between rs7903146 and current smoking by stratified analysis. Results: Logistic regression analysis indicated that the DN risk of rs7903146-T allele carriers were obviously higher than that in CC genotype carriers (CT + TT versus CC), adjusted OR (95 %CI) = 1.64 (1.24–2.06). However, we also discovered that people with rs12255372, rs11196205 and rs290487 minor allele had non-significant difference risk of DN compared with people with major allele. The GMDR model found a significant two-locus model (p = 0.0100) including rs7903146 and current smoking, suggesting a potential gene–environment interaction between rs7903146 and current smoking. Compared with never smokers with rs7903146- CC genotype, current smokers with rs7903146- CT or TT genotype had the highest DN risk. After covariate adjustment, OR (95 %CI) was 2.15 (1.58–2.78). Conclusions: We found a significant relationship of rs7903146-T alleles, and the interaction between rs7903146-T and current smoking with increased DN risk.
Transcription factor Sox4 is required for PUMA-mediated apoptosis induced by histone deacetylase inhibitor, TSA. PUMA is a crucial regulator of apoptotic cell death mediated by p53-dependent and p53-independent mechanisms. In many cancer cells, PUMA expression is induced in response to DNA-damaging reagent in a p53-dependent manner. However, few studies have investigated transcription factors that lead to the induction of PUMA expression via p53-independent apoptotic signaling. In this study, we found that the transcription factor Sox4 increased PUMA expression in response to trichostatin A (TSA), a histone deacetylase inhibitor in the p53-null human lung cancer cell line H1299. Ectopic expression of Sox4 led to the induction of PUMA expression at the mRNA and protein levels, and TSA-mediated up-regulation of PUMA transcription was repressed by the knockdown of Sox4. Using luciferase assays and chromatin immunoprecipitation, we also determined that Sox4 recruits p300 on the PUMA promoter region and increases PUMA gene expression in response to TSA treatment. Taken together, these results suggest that Sox4 is required for p53-independent apoptotic cell death mediated by PUMA induction via TSA treatment.
Transcription factor hStaf/ZNF143 is required for expression of the human TFAM gene. The mitochondrial transcription factor A (Tfam) is essential for transcription initiation and replication of mitochondrial DNA. It was previously reported that transcription factors Sp1, NRF-1, NRF-2 were critical for maintaining the normal transcription levels of the mammalian TFAM gene. In this work, investigation of the transcriptional regulation of the human TFAM gene revealed the presence of two cross-species conserved binding sites for the transcription factor hStaf/ZNF143. By using promoter binding assays, transient expression of mutant TFAM reporter gene constructs and chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments, we provided insight into the involvement of hStaf/ZNF143 in promoter activity. Furthermore, we reported the identification of two other functionally important elements. Altogether, our data led to the conclusion that the promoter of the human TFAM gene harbors a complex organization with at least six transcriptional regulatory elements.
Transcription factors KLF1 and KLF2 positively regulate embryonic and fetal β-globin genes through direct promoter binding. Krüppel-like factors (KLFs) control cell differentiation and embryonic development. KLF1 (erythroid Krüppel-like factor) plays essential roles in embryonic and adult erythropoiesis. KLF2 is a positive regulator of the mouse and human embryonic β-globin genes. KLF1 and KLF2 have highly homologous zinc finger DNA-binding domains. They have overlapping roles in embryonic erythropoiesis, as demonstrated using single and double KO mouse models. Ablation of the KLF1 or KLF2 gene causes embryonic lethality, but double KO embryos are more anemic and die sooner than either single KO. In this work, a dual human β-globin locus transgenic and KLF knockout mouse model was used. The results demonstrate that the human ε-(embryonic) and γ-globin (fetal) genes are positively regulated by KLF1 and KLF2 in embryos. Conditional KO mouse experiments indicate that the effect of KLF2 on embryonic globin gene regulation is at least partly erythroid cell-autonomous. KLF1 and KLF2 bind directly to the promoters of the human ε- and γ-globin genes, the mouse embryonic Ey- and βh1-globin genes, and also to the β-globin locus control region, as demonstrated by ChIP assays with mouse embryonic blood cells. H3K9Ac and H3K4me3 marks indicate open chromatin and active transcription, respectively. These marks are diminished at the Ey-, βh1-, ε- and γ-globin genes and locus control region in KLF 1-/- embryos, correlating with reduced gene expression. Therefore, KLF1 and KLF2 positively regulate the embryonic and fetal β-globin genes through direct promoter binding. KLF1 is required for normal histone modifications in the β-globin locus in mouse embryos.
Transcription factors KLF15 and PPARδ cooperatively orchestrate genome-wide regulation of lipid metabolism in skeletal muscle. Skeletal muscle dynamically regulates systemic nutrient homeostasis through transcriptional adaptations to physiological cues. In response to changes in the metabolic environment (e.g., alterations in circulating glucose or lipid levels), networks of transcription factors and coregulators are recruited to specific genomic loci to fine-tune homeostatic gene regulation. Elucidating these mechanisms is of particular interest as these gene regulatory pathways can serve as potential targets to treat metabolic disease. The zinc-finger transcription factor Krüppel-like factor 15 (KLF15) is a critical regulator of metabolic homeostasis; however, its genome-wide distribution in skeletal muscle has not been previously identified. Here, we characterize the KLF15 cistrome in vivo in skeletal muscle and find that the majority of KLF15 binding is localized to distal intergenic regions and associated with genes related to circadian rhythmicity and lipid metabolism. We also identify critical interdependence between KLF15 and the nuclear receptor PPARδ in the regulation of lipid metabolic gene programs. We further demonstrate that KLF15 and PPARδ colocalize genome-wide, physically interact, and are dependent on one another to exert their transcriptional effects on target genes. These findings reveal that skeletal muscle KLF15 plays a critical role in metabolic adaptation through its direct actions on target genes and interactions with other nodal transcription factors such as PPARδ.
Transcription of human resistin gene involves an interaction of Sp1 with peroxisome proliferator- activating receptor gamma (PPARγ). Background: Resistin is a cysteine rich protein, mainly expressed and secreted by circulating human mononuclear cells. While several factors responsible for transcription of mouse resistin gene have been identified, not much is known about the factors responsible for the differential expression of human resistin. Methodology/Principal Finding: We show that the minimal promoter of human resistin lies within,~80 bp sequence upstream of the transcriptional start site (-240) whereas binding sites for cRel, CCAAT enhancer binding protein α (C/EBPα), activating transcription factor 2 (ATF-2) and activator protein 1 (AP-1) transcription factors, important for induced expression, are present within sequences up to 2619. Specificity Protein 1(Sp1) binding site (2276 to 2295) is also present and an interaction of Sp1 with peroxisome proliferator activating receptor gamma (PPARγ) is necessary for constitutive expression in U937 cells. Indeed co-immunoprecipitation assay demonstrated a direct physical interaction of Sp1 with PPARγ in whole cell extracts of U937 cells. Phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) upregulated the expression of resistin mRNA in U937 cells by increasing the recruitment of Sp1, ATF-2 and PPARγ on the resistin gene promoter. Furthermore, PMA stimulation of U937 cells resulted in the disruption of Sp1 and PPARγ interaction. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assay confirmed the recruitment of transcription factors phospho ATF-2, Sp1, Sp3, PPARγ, chromatin modifier histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1) and the acetylated form of histone H3 but not cRel, C/EBP-a and phospho c-Jun during resistin gene transcription. Conclusion: Our findings suggest a complex interplay of Sp1 and PPARγ along with other transcription factors that drives the expression of resistin in human monocytic U937 cells.
Transcription of the vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-3 (VEGFR3) gene is regulated by the zinc finger proteins Sp1 and Sp3 and is under epigenetic control: Transcription of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 3. Background: In the past, the vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-3 (VEGFR-3) has been linked to the regulation of lymphangiogenesis and the lymphatic spread of solid malignancies. The molecular mechanisms controlling VEGFR3 gene expression have, however, remained poorly understood. Here, we aimed at assessing these mechanisms through VEGFR3 gene promoter analysis and the identification of transcription factors binding to it. In addition, we focussed on epigenetic modifications underlying VEGFR3 transcription regulation. Methods: 5′ Deletion analyses for the identification of functional promoter elements, electrophoretic mobility shift assays, chromatin immunoprecipitations, methylation-specific PCRs, and Trichostatin A (TSA) and 5-Aza desoxycytidine (5-Aza dC) treatments were performed in this study. Results: Following the isolation of a 2 kb stretch of 5′-flanking DNA of VEGFR3, we identified a novel GC-rich element (GRE) spanning -101/-66 sufficient for VEGFR3 transcription and activated by Sp1 and Sp3, respectively. Histone de-acetylase inhibition by TSA led to the accumulation of acetylated histones H3/H4 at the VEGFR3 gene promoter, up-regulation of its mRNA levels, and transactivation of promoter reporter constructs in endothelial cell lines. Similarly, methylation inhibition by 5-Aza dC triggered up-regulation of VEGFR3 mRNA levels and increased promoter activity. TSA and 5-Aza-dC did not influence Sp1/Sp3 binding, but increased the transactivating capacity of both transcription factors, suggesting epigenetic modification as an underlying mechanism. Conclusions: Here we describe the identification of regulatory elements controlling human VEGFR3 gene expression and show that histone acetylation and CpG methylation are important determinants of VEGFR3 transcription regulation. These findings may facilitate the development of intervention strategies aimed at targeting VEGFR3-based tumor lymphangiogenesis and/or lymphatic tumor spread.
Transcription-induced supercoiling as the driving force of chromatin loop extrusion during formation of TADs in interphase chromosomes. Using molecular dynamics simulations, we show here that growing plectonemes resulting from transcription-induced supercoiling have the ability to actively push cohesin rings along chromatin fibres. The pushing direction is such that within each topologically associating domain (TAD) cohesin rings forming handcuffs move from the source of supercoiling, constituted by RNA polymerase with associated DNA topoisomerase TOP1, towards borders of TADs, where supercoiling is released by topoisomerase TOPIIB. Cohesin handcuffs are pushed by continuous flux of supercoiling that is generated by transcription and is then progressively released by action of TOPIIB located at TADs borders. Our model explains what can be the driving force of chromatin loop extrusion and how it can be ensured that loops grow quickly and in a good direction. In addition, the supercoiling-driven loop extrusion mechanism is consistent with earlier explanations proposing why TADs flanked by convergent CTCF binding sites form more stable chromatin loops than TADs flanked by divergent CTCF binding sites. We discuss the role of supercoiling in stimulating enhancer promoter contacts and propose that transcription of eRNA sends the first wave of supercoiling that can activate mRNA transcription in a given TAD.
Transcriptional Mechanisms of Bone Morphogenetic Protein-induced Osteoprotegrin Gene Expression. Osteoprotegerin (OPG), an osteoblast-secreted decoy receptor, specifically binds to osteoclast differentiation factor and inhibits osteoclast maturation. Members of the transforming growth factor-β superfamily including bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) stimulate OPG mRNA expression. In this study, we have characterized the transcription mechanism of BMP-induced OPG gene expression. Transfection of Smad1 and a constitutively active BMP type IA receptor ALK3 (Q233) stimulated the OPG promoter. Deletion analysis of the OPG promoter identified two Hoxc-8 binding sites that respond to BMP stimulation. Glutathione S-transferase-Hoxc-8 protein binds to these two Hox sites specifically. Consistent with the transfection results of the native promoter, ALK3 or Smad1 linker region, which interacts with Hoxc-8, stimulated the activation of the reporter construct with the two Hox sites. Overexpression of Hoxc-8 inhibited the induced promoter activity. When the two Hox binding sites were mutated, ALK3 or Smad1 linker region no longer activated the transcription. Importantly, Smad1 linker region induced both OPG promoter activity and endogenous OPG protein expression in 2T3 osteoblastic cells. The medium from cells transfected with Smad1 linker region expression plasmid effectively inhibited osteoclastogenesis. Collectively, our data indicate that Hox sites mediate both OPG promoter construct activity and endogenous OPG gene expression in response to BMP stimulation.
Transcriptional Regulation of VEGFA by the Endoplasmic Reticulum Stress Transducer OASIS in ARPE-19 Cells. Background: Vascular endothelial growth factor-A (VEGFA) is the main mediator of angiogenesis. Angiogenesis plays important roles not only in many physiological processes, but also in the pathophysiology of many diseases. VEGFA is one of the therapeutic targets of treatment for ocular diseases with neovascularization. Therefore, elucidation of the regulatory mechanisms for VEGFA expression is important for the development of pharmaceutical drugs. Recent studies have demonstrated that the unfolded protein response is involved in the transcriptional regulation of VEGFA. However, the precise regulation of VEGFA in the human retina is not fully understood. Principal Findings: When human retinal pigment epithelial cells, ARPE-19, were exposed to endoplasmic reticulum stressors, VEGFA mRNA was significantly upregulated. The unfolded protein response-related transcription factors XBP1, ATF4, ATF6, and OASIS were expressed in ARPE-19 cells. To determine which transcription factors preferentially contribute to the induction of VEGFA expression after endoplasmic reticulum stress, we carried out reporter assays using an approximately 6-kbp 5′-upstream region of the human VEGFA gene. Among these transcription factors, OASIS acted most effectively on the VEGFA promoter in ARPE-19 cells. Based on data obtained for certain deleted and mutated reporter constructs, we determined that OASIS promoted VEGFA expression by acting on a cyclic AMP-responsive element-like site located at around -500 bp relative to the VEGFA transcription start site. Furthermore, we confirmed that OASIS directly bound to the promoter region containing this site by chromatin immunoprecipitation assays. Conclusions and Significance: We have demonstrated a novel regulatory mechanism for VEGFA transcription by OASIS in human retinal pigment epithelial cells. Chemical compounds that regulate the binding of OASIS to the promoter region of the VEGFA gene may have potential as therapeutic agents for ocular diseases with neovascularization.
Transcriptional activation of PRMT5 by NF-Y is required for cell growth and negatively regulated by the PKC/c-Fos signaling in prostate cancer cells. Protein arginine methyltransferase 5 (PRMT5) symmetrically methylates arginine residues of histones and non-histone protein substrates and regulates a variety of cellular processes through epigenetic control of target gene expression or post-translational modification of signaling molecules. Recent evidence suggests that PRMT5 may function as an oncogene and its overexpression contributes to the development and progression of several human cancers. However, the mechanism underlying the regulation of PRMT5 expression in cancer cells remains largely unknown. In the present study, we have mapped the proximal promoter of PRMT5 to the -. 240. bp region and identified nuclear transcription factor Y (NF-Y) as a critical transcription factor that binds to the two inverted CCAAT boxes and regulates PRMT5 expression in multiple cancer cell lines. Further, we present evidence that loss of PRMT5 is responsible for cell growth inhibition induced by knockdown of NF-YA, a subunit of NF-Y that forms a heterotrimeric complex with NF-YB and NF-YC for function. Significantly, we have found that activation of protein kinase C (PKC) by phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) in LNCaP prostate cancer cells down-regulates the expression of NF-YA and PRMT5 at the transcription level in a c-Fos-dependent manner. Given that down-regulation of several PKC isozymes is implicated in the development and progression of several human cancers, our findings suggest that the PKC-c-Fos-NF-Y signaling pathway may be responsible for PRMT5 overexpression in a subset of human cancer patients.
Transcriptional activation of the F1F0 ATP synthase α-subunit initiator element by USF2 is mediated by p300. We have been studying the transcriptional regulation of the mammalian F1F0 ATP synthase α-subunit gene (ATPA), a TATA-less initiator-containing gene. We have previously determined that the transcription factor, upstream stimulatory factor 2 (USF2), can activate the ATPA gene through an initiator element in the core promoter. Here, we demonstrate that the coactivator p300 interacts functionally with USF2 proteins to potentiate the activation of the ATPA initiator element by USF2. The physiological relevance of this interaction was shown in vivo by expression of the adenovirus E1A oncoprotein. Wild-type E1A, but not E1A mutants that lacked p300-binding sites, inhibited the USF2-dependent transactivation of the ATPA initiator element. Furthermore, overexpression of p300 could reverse the inhibitory effect of E1A. Collectively, our results indicate that the USF2-dependent transcriptional activation of the ATPA initiator element is mediated by p300.   B.V.
Transcriptional activation of the human CD2AP promoter by E2F1. CD2-associated protein (CD2AP) is an adaptor molecule involved in T cell receptor signaling and podocyte homeostasis. CD2AP-deficient mice develop nephritic syndrome and renal failure caused by glomerulosclerosis. Transcription factor E2F1 is a key regulator of cell proliferation and apoptosis. Here we report that E2F1 up-regulates the human CD2AP promoter and further increases the mRNA and protein levels of the human CD2AP in human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 cells. By semi-quantitative RT-PCR and Western blot analysis we demonstrate that ectopic expression of E2F1 elevates the mRNA and protein levels of CD2AP. Consistently, transient transfection assays prove that overexpression of E2F1 transactivates the CD2AP promoter while knocking-down of endogenous E2F1 by a shRNA strategy results in reduction of the CD2AP promoter activity. Toward understanding the underlying mechanism of this regulation, we performed chromatin immunoprecipitation and mutations of the putative Sp1 binding sites, demonstrating that E2F1 can bind to Sp1 binding site and overexpression of E2F1 is capable of increasing the binding of E2F1 and decreasing the binding of Sp1 to Sp1 binding sites.
Transcriptional control of DNA replication licensing by Myc. The c-myc protooncogene encodes the Myc transcription factor, a global regulator of fundamental cellular processes. Deregulation of c-myc leads to tumorigenesis, and c-myc is an important driver in human cancer. Myc and its dimerization partner Max are bHLH-Zip DNA binding proteins involved in transcriptional regulation of target genes. Non-transcriptional functions have also been attributed to the Myc protein, notably direct interaction with the pre-replicative complex (pre-RC) controlling the initiation of DNA replication. A key component of the pre-RC is the Cdt1 protein, an essential factor in origin licensing. Here we present data suggesting that the CDT1 gene is a transcriptional target of the Myc-Max complex. Expression of the CDT1 gene in v-myc-transformed cells directly correlates with myc expression. Also, human tumor cells with elevated c-myc expression display increased CDT1 expression. Occupation of the CDT1 promoter by Myc-Max is demonstrated by chromatin immunoprecipitation, and transactivation by Myc-Max is shown in reporter assays. Ectopic expression of CDT1 leads to cell transformation. Our results provide a possible direct mechanistic link of Myc's canonical function as a transcription factor to DNA replication. Furthermore, we suggest that aberrant transcriptional activation of CDT1 by deregulated myc alleles contributes to the genomic instabilities observed in tumor cells.
Transcriptional profiles of type 2 diabetes in human skeletal muscle reveal insulin resistance, metabolic defects, apoptosis, and molecular signatures of immune activation in response to infections. Skeletal muscle insulin resistance is considered to be the primary defect involved in type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Despite transcriptome studies in limited T2DM human subjects suggesting an association of T2DM with impaired oxidative phosphorylation in muscle, its molecular pathogenesis remains largely unknown. To identify dysregulated genes and gene networks that are associated with T2DM in human skeletal muscle, we examined expression patterns of 56,318 transcribed genes on 92 T2DM cases and 184 gender-, age- and race-matched non-diabetic controls from the Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) database. RNA-Sequencing data suggest that diabetic skeletal muscle is characterized by decreased expression of genes that are related to insulin resistance (IRS2, MTOR, SLC2A4, and PPARA), carbohydrate, energy, and amino acid metabolism pathways (NDUFS1, NDUFA10, NDUFB4, NDUFB5, NDUFA5, NDUFB10, SDHB, SDHC, ATP5H, ATP5A, and ATP5J). Up-regulated genes in T2DM are mainly enriched in apoptosis pathways (TP53, GADD45A, TNFRSF10B, TP53AIP1, and PMAIP1), and notably include immune-related pathways suggestive of a response to various infectious diseases (C2, CFB, C4A, C4B, C1S, C1R, C3, HLA-DRA, HLA-DMA, HLA-DOA, and HLA-DPB1). These results confirm the essential regulation of impaired insulin signaling and oxidative phosphorylation in the muscle of T2DM patients, and provide novel molecular insights into the pathophysiological mechanisms of T2DM.
Transcriptional regulation of EGR-1 by the interleukin-1-JNK-MKK7-c-Jun pathway. The proinflammatory cytokine interleukin (IL)-1 activates several hundred genes within the same cell. This occurs in part by activation of the MKK7-JNK-c-Jun signaling pathway whose precise role in the regulation of individual inflammatory genes is still incompletely understood. To identify the genes that are under specific control of activated JNK, we used a JNK-MKK7 fusion protein. Genome-wide microarray analysis revealed EGR-1 as the transcript that was most strongly induced by JNK-MKK7. IL-1-stimulated EGR-1 mRNA and protein expression were impaired in cells lacking JNK or c-Jun. Transcriptional activation of the EGR-1 promoter by JNK-MKK7 or by IL-1 required a single upstream AP-1 site and three distal serum-response elements (SRE). Reconstitution experiments in c-Jun-deficient cells revealed that c-Jun is required for EGR-1 transcription through both the AP-1 site and the distal SREs. By chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis, we found IL-1-inducible recruitment of c-Jun to the AP-1 site and to the region containing the three distal SREs. These experiments suggest that c-Jun plays a dual role in EGR-1 transcription. It directly binds to the AP-1 element, and at the same time it is essential for promoter activation through the three distal SREs by an indirect unknown mechanism. As predicted by TRANSFAC analysis and verified by ChIP experiments, IL-1-induced EGR-1 protein binds to the promoter regions of inflammatory mediators such as IL-6, IL-8, and CCL2. Furthermore, short interfering RNA-mediated suppression of EGR-1 partially suppresses IL-1-inducible transcription of IL-8, IL-6, and CCL2. In summary, we provide novel evidence for a complex c-Jun-mediated mechanism that is essential for inducible EGR-1 expression. We identify this pathway as a previously unrecognized part of a multistep gene regulatory network that controls cytokine and chemokine expression via the IL-1-MKK7-JNK-c-Jun-EGR-1 pathway.
Transcriptional regulation of fatty acid translocase/CD36 expression by CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein α. Fatty acid translocase (FAT/CD36) plays an important role in facilitating long chain fatty acid transport. FAT/CD36 gene deletion protects mice from high fat diet-induced obesity. In this study we have investigated the regulatory mechanism of FAT/CD36 expression at the transcription level. FAT/CD36 expression was activated during 3T3-L1 adipocyte differentiation, and FAT/CD36 protein levels were positively correlated with CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein α (C/EBPα) and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ. However, a negative correlation was detected between FAT/CD36 and C/EBPβ. Overexpression of C/EBPα or C/EBPβ increased FAT/CD36 mRNA and protein levels in several types of cells. Restoration of C/EBPα or C/EBPβ expression in C/EBPα- or C/EBPβ-deficient mouse embryonic fibroblasts increased FAT/CD36 expression. However, in mouse embryonic fibroblasts C/EBPα was a more potent activator of FAT/CD36 expression than was C/EBPβ. Expression of C/EBPα robustly increased FAT/CD36 proximal promoter-directed luciferase expression in human embryonic kidney 293 cells. A C/EBP-responsive element was identified in the FAT/CD36 promoter by using 5′ and specific site mutations. The binding of C/EBPα in the FAT/CD36 promoter was detected by chromatin immunoprecipitation in 3T3-L1 adipocytes. These results demonstrated that C/EBPα regulates FAT/CD36 gene expression at the transcriptional level.
Transcriptional regulation of the elafin gene in human keratinocytes. Elafin (also known as skin-derived anti-leukoproteinase/trappin-2) is an epithelial host-defense protein that is absent in normal skin but highly induced in keratinocytes of inflamed skin (e.g., psoriasis), in epidermal skin tumors, and after wounding. Previously, it was shown that in cultured keratinocytes, elafin expression is induced by serum or tumor necrosis factor-α, and that expression is suppressed by retinoids, dithranol, and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase inhibitors. Here we have studied the regulation of elafin gene expression in epidermal keratinocytes at the molecular level. First we determined the transcription start site of the elafin gene and found that the elafin mRNA possesses an unusually short 5′-untranslated region. Using transient transfection of luciferase reporter constructs of the elafin promoter, we mapped a 440 bp region upstream of the translation start site that conferred high-level expression in keratinocytes, but not in A431 cells or cells of mesenchymal origin. We observed that the promoter constructs were not subjected to the same regulation as the endogenous elafin gene as these constructs were highly active independent of keratinocyte stimulation. When elafin promoter constructs were stably transfected in the HaCaT keratinocyte cell line, tumor necrosis factor-α inducible expression of both the endogenous elafin gene and the transgene was observed, suggesting that regulation of the elafin gene is also dependent on chromatin structure. We found, however, that a stably transfected 4 kb elafin promoter fragment did not confer retinoid sensitivity indicating that additional sequences are required for proper regulation. This study reveals the complex regulation of a gene that can be used as a paradigm for the specific differentiation program of activated epidermal keratinocytes.
Transcriptional regulation of the human NRIP1/RIP140 gene by estrogen is modulated by dioxin signalling. Receptor interacting protein 140 (RIP140) is a negative transcriptional regulator of nuclear hormone receptors that is required for the maintenance of energy homeostasis and ovulation. In this study, we investigated the mechanisms by which RIP140 expression is controlled by estrogens in breast cancer cells. We first analyzed by real time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction the regulation of RIP140 mRNA accumulation by estrogen receptor (ER) ligands in MCF-7 cells. We showed that the induction by estradiol (E2) was rapid and did not affect the apparent stability of the mRNA, suggesting a direct transcriptional regulation. To further study the underlying regulatory mechanisms, we then characterized the human RIP140 gene. We identified several noncoding exons with alternative splicing and localized the promoter region more than 100 kilobases upstream from the coding exon. Although we mapped a perfect consensus estrogen response element able to bind ERα in gel shift and in chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments, the effect of E2 on RIP140 gene transcription was very modest. This might result at least in part from the presence of an overlapping aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) binding site, which interfered with the E2 response on both the transiently transfected reporter construct and the accumulation of the endogenous RIP140 mRNA. Altogether, our data indicate that the RIP140 gene exhibits a complex structure with several noncoding exons and supports transcriptional cross-talk and feedback involving the ERα and AhR nuclear receptors.
Transcriptome analysis reveals the mechanism of stromal cell-derived factor-1 and exendin-4 synergistically promoted periodontal ligament stem cells osteogenic differentiation. Stromal cell-derived factor-1 (SDF-1) and Exendin-4 (EX-4) play beneficial roles in promoting periodontal ligament stem cells (PDLSCs) osteogenic differentiation, while the detailed mechanism has not been clarified. In this study, we aimed to evaluate the biological mechanism of SDF-1 and EX-4 alone or synergistic application in regulating PDLSCs differentiation by RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq). A total of 110, 116 and 109 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were generated in osteogenic medium induced PDLSCs treated by SDF-1, EX-4, and SDF-1+EX-4, respectively. The DEGs in SDF-1 group were enriched in signal transduction related signaling pathways; the DEGs in EX-4 group were enriched in metabolism and biosynthesis-related pathways; and the DEGs generated in SDF-1+EX-4 group were mainly enriched in RNA polymerase II transcription, cell differentiation, chromatin organization, protein phosphorylation pathways. Based on Venn analysis, a total of 37 specific DEGs were identified in SDF- 1+EX-4 group, which were mainly enriched in negative regulation of autophagy and cellular component disassembly signaling pathways. Short time-series expression miner (STEM) analysis grouped all expressed genes of PDLSCs into 49 clusters according to the dynamic expression patterns and 25 genes, including NRSN2, CHD9, TUBA1A, distributed in 10 gene clusters in SDF-1+EX-4 treated PDLSCs were significantly up- regulated compared with the SDF-1 and EX-4 alone groups. The gene set enrichment analysis indicated that SDF-1 could amplify the role of EX-4 in regulating varied signaling pathways, such as type II diabetes mellitus and insulin signaling pathways; while EX-4 could aggravate the effect of SDF-1 on PDLSCs biological roles via regulating primary immunodeficiency, tight junction signaling pathways. In summary, our study confirmed that SDF-1 and EX-4 combined application could enhance PDLSCs biological activity and promote PDLSCs osteogenic differentiation by regulating the metabolism, biosynthesis and immune-related signaling pathways.
Transcriptome profiling of visceral adipose tissue in a novel obese rat model, WNIN/Ob &amp; its comparison with other animal models. Background & objectives: Adipose tissue dysfunction in obesity is linked to the development of type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular diseases. We studied the differential gene expression in retroperitoneal adipose tissue of a novel obese rat model, WNIN/Ob, to understand the possible underlying transcriptional changes involved in the development of obesity and associatedcomorbidities in this model. Methods: Four month old, male WNIN/Ob lean and obese rats were taken, blood was collected and tissues were dissected. Body composition analysis and adipose tissue histology were performed. Global gene expression in retroperitoneal adipose tissue of lean and obese rats was studied by microarray using Affymetrix GeneChips. Results: One thousand and seventeen probe sets were downregulated and 963 probe sets were upregulated (more than two-fold) in adipose tissue of WNIN/Ob obese rats when compared to that of lean rats. Small nucleolar RNA (SnoRNA) made most of the underexpressed probe sets, whereas immune system-related genes werethe most overexpressed in the adipose tissues of obese rats. Genes coding for cytoskeletal proteinswere downregulated, whereas genes related to lipid biosynthesis were elevated in the adipose tissue of obese rats. Interpretation & conclusions: Majority of the altered genes and pathways in adipose tissue of WNIN/ Ob obese rats were similar to the observations in other obese animal models and human obesity. Based on these observations, it is proposed that WNIN/Ob obese rat model may be a good model to study the mechanisms involved in the development of obesity and its comorbidities. Downregulation of SnoRNA appears to be a novel feature in this obese rat model.
Transcriptomic and Proteomic Analysis Reveals Mechanisms of Patulin-Induced Cell Toxicity in Human Embryonic Kidney Cells. Patulin (PAT) is a natural mycotoxin that commonly contaminates fruits and fruit-based products. Previous work indicated that PAT-induced apoptosis in which reactive oxygen species (ROS) are involved in human embryonic kidney (HEK293) cells. To uncover novel aspects of the possible mechanism of PAT nephrotoxicity, the transcriptome and proteome profiles were investigated using the digital gene expression (DGE) and isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) proteomic approaches. A total of 127 genes and 85 proteins were found to express differentially in response to 5 µM PAT for 10 h in HEK293 cells. The most dramatic changes of expression were noticed with genes or proteins related to apoptosis, oxidative phosphorylation ribosome and cell cycle. Especially, the activation of caspase 3, UQCR11, active transport form and endocytosis appeared to be crucial in PAT kidney cytotoxicity. PAT also seemed to be associated with cancer and neuropathic disease as pathways associated with carcinogenesis, Alzheimer’s disease and Parkinson’s disease were induced. Overall, this study served to uncover overall insights associated with signaling pathway that modulated the PAT toxicity mechanism.
Transforming growth factor β1/Smad4 signaling affects osteoclast differentiation via regulation of miR-155 expression. Transforming growth factor β1 (TGFβ1)/Smad4 signaling plays a pivotal role in maintenance of the dynamic balance between bone formation and resorption. The microRNA miR-155 has been reported to exert a significant role in the differentiation of macrophage and dendritic cells. The goal of this study was to determine whether miR-155 regulates osteoclast differentiation through TGFβ1/Smad4 signaling. Here, we present that TGFβ1 elevated miR-155 levels during osteoclast differentiation through the stimulation of M-CSF and RANKL. Additionally, we found that silencing Smad4 attenuated the upregulation of miR-155 induced by TGFβ1. The results of luciferase reporter experiments and ChIP assays demonstrated that TGFβ1 promoted the binding of Smad4 to the miR-155 promoter at a site located in 454 bp from the transcription start site in vivo, further verifying that miR-155 is a transcriptional target of the TGFβ1/Smad4 pathway. Subsequently, TRAP staining and qRT-PCR analysis revealed that silencing Smad4 impaired the TGFβ1-mediated inhibition on osteoclast differentiation. Finally, we found that miR-155 may target SOCS1 and MITF to suppress osteoclast differentiation. Taken together, we provide the first evidence that TGFβ1/Smad4 signaling affects osteoclast differentiation by regulation of miR-155 expression and the use of miR-155 as a potential therapeutic target for osteoclast-related diseases shows great promise.
Translation and the cytoskeleton: a mechanism for targeted protein synthesis. This review describes the critical evidence that in eukaryotic cells polyribosomes, mRNAs and components of the protein synthetic machinery are associated with the cytoskeleton. The role of microtubules, intermediate filaments and microfilaments are discussed; at present most evidence suggests that polyribosomes interact with the actin filaments. The use of non-ionic detergent/deoxycholate treatment in the isolation of cytoskeletal-bound polysomes is described and the conclusion reached that at low salt concentrations this leads to mixed preparations of polysomes derived from both the cytoskeleton and the endoplasmic reticulum. At present the best approach for isolation of cytoskeletal-bound polysomes appears to involve extraction with salt concentrations greater than 130 mM after an initial non-ionic detergent treatment. Such polysomes appear to be enriched in certain mRNAs and thus it is suggested that they are involved in translation of a unique set of proteins. The evidence for mRNA localisation is presented and the role of the cytoskeleton in transport and localisation of RNA discussed. Recent data on the role of the 3′ untranslated region in the targeting of mRNAs both to particular regions of the cell and for translation on cytoskeletal-bound polysomes is described. The hypothesis is developed that the association of polysomes with the cytoskeleton is the basis of a mechanism for the targeting of mRNAs and the compartmentalization of protein synthesis.
Translational efficiency of polycistronic mRNAs and their utilization to express heterologous genes in mammalian cells.. The translation of polycistronic mRNAs in mammalian cells was studied. Transcription units, constructed to contain one, two or three open reading frames (ORFs), were introduced stably into Chinese hamster ovary cells and transiently into COS monkey cells. The analysis of mRNA levels and protein synthesis in these cells demonstrated that the mRNAs transcribed were translated to generate multiple proteins. The efficiency of translation was reduced approximately 40- to 300-fold by the insertion of an upstream ORF. The results support a modified 'scanning' model for translation initiation which allows for translation initiation at internal AUG codons. High-level expression of human granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor was achieved utilizing a vector that contains a polycistronic transcription unit encoding an amplifiable dihydrofolate reductase marker gene in its 3' end. Thus, polycistronic expression vectors can be exploited to obtain high-level expression of foreign genes in mammalian cells.
Triple helix-forming oligodeoxyribonucleotides targeted to the human tumor necrosis factor (TNF) gene inhibit TNF production and block the TNF- dependent growth of human glioblastoma tumor cells. Synthetic oligodeoxyribonucleotides (ODNs) designed to selectively inhibit the transcription or translation of specific genes are being used to modulate the activity of the targeted gene. Because multiple copies of mRNA can be transcribed from one actively expressed gene, ODNs that target double- stranded DNA and form triple helices upon binding with the gene itself have an advantage over ODNs that target the gene product (mRNA) in an antisense fashion. For the present studies, we designed four different triple helix- forming phosphodiester ODNs (TFOs) targeted to the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) gene and examined their effect on production of TNF and on cellular growth of tumors in which TNF acts as an autocrine growth factor. The ODNs J- 109-50 and J-108-57 were designed to interact with polypurine oligonucleotides corresponding to the binding sites for nuclear factors kB (- 237 to -208) and Sp1 (-58 to -33), respectively; J111-51 was designed to interact with a polypurine oligonucleotide in the third intron (+1429 to +1456) of the TNF gene. To enhance the cellular penetration and prevent degradation by cellular nucleases, the TFOs were modified at their 3' ends by either a cholesterol side chain or a propanolamine blocking group. Treatment of the human promonocytic cell line THP-1 with TNF-TFOs at a nontoxic concentration (2 μM) reduced the production of TNF. All of the TNF-TFOs tested were effective, and control-irrelevant TFOs were ineffective in inhibiting TNF production. The activity of the most efficacious TNF-TFOs also correlated with a decrease in TNF mRNA as observed by using reverse transcriptase PCR assays. In several tumors in which TNF acts as an autocrine growth factor, we examined the antiproliferative activity of J111-51. We found that in the human glioblastoma tumor cell line U-251, TNF-induced growth was blocked by J111-51 in a dose-dependent manner. Thus, overall results demonstrate that oligonucleotides directed to the specific regions of TNF can be designed, which may have a potential in cancer therapy.
Tumor necrosis factor and the p55TNF receptor are required for optimal development of the marginal sinus and for migration of follicular dendritic cell precursors into splenic follicles. The development and function of secondary lymphoid tissue require signaling by tumor necrosis factor and lymphotoxins. Mice deficient in LTβR show defective organogenesis of lymph nodes and Peyer's patches and a severely disturbed splenic architecture. In contrast, TNF or p55TNF-R deficiency does not affect the organogenesis of peripheral lymphoid organs but interferes with the formation of B cell follicles and the appearance of FDC networks and germinal centers in all secondary lymphoid organs. Based on these differences, we have previously hypothesized that the role of TNF in lymphoid structure is distinct from that of LT and restricted in regulating cellular interactions that allow the differentiation and/or correct positioning of FDCs. In the present study we show that, in addition to the defects in follicular structure, TNF or p55TNF-R knockout mice exhibit defects in the formation of the macrophage populations and of the sinus lining cells of the splenic marginal zone. Interestingly, a large number of dendritic-shaped cells stained with FDC-specific markers and able to trap immune complexes are retained within the defective marginal zone of TNF and p55TNF-R knockout spleens. We conclude that the primary defect in the lymphoid phenotype of TNF or p55TNF-R knockout mice is the failure of FDC precursors to migrate through the disorganized marginal sinus and to home properly into the splenic follicular areas where they would promote the formation of B cell follicles and germinal centers.  Academic Press.
Tumor necrosis factor-like weak inducer of apoptosis (Tweak) enhances activation of stat3/nlrc4 inflammasome signaling axis through pkcδ in astrocytes: Implications for parkinson’s disease. Astrocytic dysfunction has been implicated in Parkinson’s disease (PD) pathogenesis. While the Tumor necrosis factor-like weak inducer of apoptosis (TWEAK)/Fn14 signaling axis is known to play a role in PD-like neuropathology, the molecular mechanisms that govern this process remain poorly understood. Herein, we show that TWEAK levels are elevated in PD serum compared to controls. Moreover, using both U373 human astrocyte cells and primary mouse astrocytes, we demonstrate that TWEAK induces mitochondrial oxidative stress as well as protein kinase C delta (PKCδ) and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) activation, accompanied by NLRC4 inflammasome activation and upregulation and release of proinflammatory cytokines, including IL-1β, TNF-α, and IL-18. Mechanistically, TWEAK-induced PKCδ activation enhances the STAT3/NLRC4 signaling pathway and other proinflammatory mediators through a mitochondrial oxidative stress-dependent mechanism. We further show that PKCδ knockdown and mito-apocynin, a mitochondrial antioxidant, suppress TWEAK-induced proinflammatory NLRC4/STAT3 signaling and cellular oxidative stress response. Notably, we validated our in vitro findings in an MPTP mouse model of PD and in mice receiving intrastriatal administration of TWEAK. These results indicate that TWEAK is a key regulator of astroglial reactivity and illustrate a novel mechanism by which mitochondrial oxidative stress may influence dopaminergic neuronal survival in PD.
Tumor suppressive microRNA-133a regulates novel molecular networks in lung squamous cell carcinoma. Analysis of the microRNA (miRNA) expression signature of lung squamous cell carcinoma (lung-SCC) revealed that the expression levels of miR-133a were significantly reduced in cancer tissues compared with normal tissues. In this study, we focused on the functional significance of miR-133a in cancer cell lines derived from lung-SCC and the identification of miR-133a-regulated novel cancer networks in lung-SCC. Restoration of miR-133a expression in PC10 and H157 cell lines resulted in significant inhibition of cell proliferation, suggesting that miR-133a functions as a tumor suppressor. We used genome-wide gene expression analysis to identify the molecular targets of miR-133a regulation. Gene expression data and web-based searching revealed several candidate genes, including transgelin 2 (TAGLN2), actin-related protein2/3 complex, subunit 5, 16kDa (ARPC5), LAG1 homolog, ceramide synthase 2 (LASS2) and glutathione S-transferase pi 1 (GSTP1). ARPC5 and GSTP1 likely represent bona fide targets as their expression is elevated in lung-SCC clinical specimens. Furthermore, transient transfection of miR-133a, repressed ARPC5 and GSTP1 mRNA and protein levels. As cell proliferation was significantly inhibited in lung-SCC cells following RNAi knock down of either gene, ARPC5 and GSTP1 may function as oncogenes in the development of lung-SCC. The identification of a tumor suppressive miRNA and the novel cancer pathways it regulates could provide new insights into potential molecular mechanisms of lung-SCC carcinogenesis.
Two androgen response elements in the androgen receptor coding region are required for cell-specific up-regulation of receptor messenger RNA. In most cells and tissues containing androgen receptors (ARs), androgen regulates the levels of AR messenger RNA (mRNA). As the AR concentration is correlated with androgen responsiveness, this autoregulation of AR mRNA may affect cellular sensitivity to androgens. Androgens decrease levels of AR mRNA in many cell lines and tissues; however, in some tissues and possibly also at certain developmental stages, AR mRNA is up-regulated by androgens. Sequences within the 5'-flanking region and AR promoter do not appear to be sufficient for androgen regulation of AR mRNA. We have previously shown that both down- and up-regulation of AR mRNA by androgen can be reproduced in cell lines expressing a transfected human AR complementary DNA (cDNA). Sequences within the AR cDNA confer this autoregulation in transfected cells, suggesting that sequences within the transcribed region of the AR gene are sufficient for autoregulation. In this study we have determined the mechanism of androgenic up-regulation of AR mRNA encoded by the human AR cDNA in the prostate cancer cell line, PC3, and have identified the cis-acting sequences of the AR cDNA that are required. The observations that actinomycin D blocked androgenic up-regulation of AR mRNA but cycloheximide had no effect are consistent with a model in which AR is directly involved in transcriptional up-regulation of AR cDNA expression. Nuclear run-on assays showed that androgen treatment resulted in increased transcription of the AR cDNA. Furthermore, a 350-bp AR cDNA fragment inserted 5' of a thymidine kinase promoter-chloramphenicol acetyltransferase gene conferred androgen induction of chloramphenicol acetyltransferase activity in PC3 cells. This 350-bp fragment, which is located in the AR coding region, contains two putative androgen response elements (AREs) separated by 182 bp. The 5'-most ARE (ARE- 1, 5'-TGTCCT-3') resembles a half-site of the palindromic consensus hormone response element, recognized by several steroid receptors, including AR, and the 3'-sequence (ARE-2, 5'-AGTACTCC-3') is identical to a portion of an androgen-responsive region found in the rat probasin gene promoter. Analysis of either ARE-1 or ARE-2 mutants revealed that these elements function synergistically. AR protein binds to the 350-bp fragment, as demonstrated by electrophoretic mobility shift assays using a glutathione-S-transferase-AR fusion protein containing the DNA- and steroid-binding domains of AR. These results indicate that the AR coding region contains an androgen-responsive region that is involved in cell line-specific up-regulation of AR mRNA.
Two inhibitory systems and CKIs regulate cell cycle exit of mammalian cardiomyocytes after birth. Mammalian cardiomyocytes actively proliferate during embryonic stages, following which they exit their cell cycle after birth, and the exit is maintained. Previously, we showed that two inhibitory systems (the G1-phase inhibitory system: repression of cyclin D1 expression; the M-phase inhibitory system: inhibition of CDK1 activation) maintain the cell cycle exit of mouse adult cardiomyocytes. We also showed that two CDK inhibitors (CKIs), p21Cip1 and p27Kip1, regulate the cell cycle exit in a portion of postnatal cardiomyocytes. It remains unknown whether the two inhibitory systems are involved in the cell cycle exit of postnatal cardiomyocytes and whether p21Cip1 and p27Kip1 also inhibit entry to M-phase. Here, we showed that more than 40% of cardiomyocytes entered an additional cell cycle by induction of cyclin D1 expression at postnatal stages, but M-phase entry was inhibited in the majority of cardiomyocytes. Marked cell cycle progression and endoreplication were observed in cardiomyocytes of p21Cip1 knockout mice at 4 weeks of age. In addition, tri- and tetranucleated cardiomyocytes increased significantly in p21Cip1 knockout mice. These data showed that the G1-phase inhibitory system and two CKIs (p21Cip1 and p27Kip1) inhibit entry to an additional cell cycle in postnatal cardiomyocytes, and that the M-phase inhibitory system and p21Cip1 inhibit M-phase entry of cardiomyocytes which have entered the additional cell cycle.
UBTF facilitates melanoma progression via modulating MEK1/2-ERK1/2 signalling pathways by promoting GIT1 transcription. Background: UBTF is an HMGB-box DNA binding protein and a necessary Pol I/Pol II basal transcription factor. It has been found that UBTF involves in carcinogenesis and progression of a few cancers. Nevertheless, the the biological function and potential molecular mechanism of UBTF in melanoma are still not clear and need to be clarified. Methods: UBTF and GIT1 expressions in melanoma specimens and cell lines were examined by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) and Western blot. MTT and colony formation assays were used to investigate the effects of UBTF and GIT1 on melanoma cell proliferation. Cell cycle and apoptosis assays were detected by flow cytometry. Tumor formation assay was used to analyze the effect of UBTF on melanoma growth. Bioinformatics predicting, chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP)-qRT-PCR and reporter gene assay were fulfilled for verifing GIT1 as UBTF targeting gene. Results: Here we reported that UBTF mRNA and protein expressions were upregulated in primary melanoma specimens and cell lines. UBTF overexpression facilitated melanoma cell proliferation and cell cycle progression and restrained. Silencing UBTF suppressed cell multiplication, cell cycle progression and tumor growth, and promoted apoptosis. UBTF expression was positively related with GIT1 expression in human melanoma tissues. It was verified that UBTF promoted GIT1 transcription in melanoma cells through binding to the promoter region of GIT1. Furthermore, GIT1 overexpression promoted melanoma cell growth and suppressed apoptosis. Knockdown of GIT1 inhibited cell multiplication and induced apoptosis. Overexpression of GIT1 eliminated the effects of silencing UBTF on melanoma cells. Importantly, UBTF activated MEK1/2-ERK1/2 signalling pathways by upregulating GIT1 expression. Conclusions: Our study demonstrates that UBTF promotes melanoma cell proliferation and cell cycle progression by promoting GIT1 transcription, thereby activating MEK1/2-ERK1/2 signalling pathways. The findings indicate that UBTF plays a crucial function in melanoma and may be a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of this disease.
UCN-01-induced cell cycle arrest requires the transcriptional induction of p21waf1/cip1 by activation of mitogen-activated protein/ extracellular signal-regulated kinase kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase pathway. The small molecule UCN-01 is a cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) modulator shown to have antiproliferative effects against several in vitro and in vivo cancer models currently being tested in human clinical trials. Although UCN-01 may inhibit several serine-threonine kinases, the exact mechanism by which it promotes cell cycle arrest is still unclear. We have reported previously that UCN-01 promotes G1-S cell cycle arrest in a battery of head and neck squamous cancer cell lines. The arrest is accompanied by an increase in both p21waf1/cip1 and p27kip1 CDK inhibitors leading to loss in G1 CDK activity. In this report we explore the role and the mechanism for the induction of these endogenous CDK inhibitors. We observed that p21 was required for the cell cycle effects of UCN-01, as HCT116 lacking p21-/-) was refractory to the cell cycle effects of UCN-01. Moreover, UCN-01 promoted the accumulation of p21 at the mRNA level in the p53-deficient HaCaT cells without increase in the p21 mRNA half-life, suggesting that UCN-01 induced p21 at the transcriptional level. To study UCN-01 transcriptional activation of p21, we used several p21waf1/cip1 promoter-driven luciferase reporter plasmids and observed that UCN-01 activated the full-length p21waf1/cip1 promoter and a construct lacking p53 binding sites. The minimal promoter region required for UCN-01 (from - 110 bp to the transcription start site) was the same minimal p21waf1/cip1 promoter region required for Ras enhancement of p21waf1/cip1 transcription. Neither protein kinase C nor PDK1/AKT pathways were relevant for the induction of p21 by UCN-01. In contrast, the activation of mitogen-activated protein/extracellular signal-regulated kinase kinase (MEK)/extracellular signal-regulated kinase mitogen-activated protein kinase pathways was required for p21 induction as UCN-01 activated this pathway, and genetic or chemical MEK inhibitors blunted p21 accumulation. These results demonstrated for the first time that p21 is required for UCN-01 cell cycle arrest. Moreover, we showed that the accumulation of p21 is transcriptional via activation of the MEK pathway. This novel mechanism, by which UCN-01 exerts its antiproliferative effect, represents a promising strategy to be exploited in future clinical trials.
UPR Pathways Combine to Prevent Hepatic Steatosis Caused by ER Stress-Mediated Suppression of Transcriptional Master Regulators. The unfolded protein response (UPR) is linked to metabolic dysfunction, yet it is not known how endoplasmic reticulum (ER) disruption might influence metabolic pathways. Using a multilayered genetic approach, we find that mice with genetic ablations of either ER stress-sensing pathways (ATF6α, eIF2α, IRE1α) or of ER quality control (p58IPK) share a common dysregulated response to ER stress that includes the development of hepatic microvesicular steatosis. Rescue of ER protein processing capacity by the combined action of UPR pathways during stress prevents the suppression of a subset of metabolic transcription factors that regulate lipid homeostasis. This suppression occurs in part by unresolved ER stress perpetuating expression of the transcriptional repressor CHOP. As a consequence, metabolic gene expression networks are directly responsive to ER homeostasis. These results reveal an unanticipated direct link between ER homeostasis and the transcriptional regulation of metabolism, and suggest mechanisms by which ER stress might underlie fatty liver disease.
Uncoupling of GTP hydrolysis from eIF6 release on the ribosome causes shwachman-diamond syndrome. Removal of the assembly factor eukaryotic initiation factor 6 (eIF6) is critical for late cytoplasmic maturation of 60S ribosomal subunits. In mammalian cells, the current model posits that eIF6 release is triggered following phosphorylation of Ser 235 by activated protein kinase C. In contrast, genetic studies in yeast indicate a requirement for the ortholog of the SBDS (Shwachman-Bodian-Diamond syndrome) gene that is mutated in the inherited leukemia predisposition disorder Shwachman-Diamond syndrome (SDS). Here, by isolating late cytoplasmic 60S ribosomal subunits from Sbds-deleted mice, we show that SBDS and the GTPase elongation factor-like 1 (EFL1) directly catalyze eIF6 removal in mammalian cells by a mechanism that requires GTP binding and hydrolysis by EFL1 but not phosphorylation of eIF6 Ser 235. Functional analysis of disease associated missense variants reveals that the essential role of SBDS is to tightly couple GTP hydrolysis by EFL1 on the ribosome to eIF6 release. Furthermore, complementary NMR spectroscopic studies suggest unanticipated mechanistic parallels between this late step in 60S maturation and aspects of bacterial ribosome disassembly. Our findings establish a direct role for SBDS and EFL1 in catalyzing the translational activation of ribosomes in all eukaryotes, and define SDS as a ribosomopathy caused by uncoupling GTP hydrolysis from eIF6 release.
Unique Features of the Immune Response in BTBR Mice. Inflammation plays a considerable role in the pathogenesis of many diseases, including neurodegenerative and psychiatric ones. Elucidation of the specific features of an immune response in various model organisms, and studying the relation of these features with the behavioral phenotype, can improve the understanding of the molecular mechanisms of many psychopathologies. In this work, we focused on BTBR mice, which have a pronounced autism-like behavioral phenotype, elevated levels of oxidative-stress markers, an abnormal immune response, several structural aberrations in the brain, and other unique traits. Although some studies have already shown an abnormal immune response in BTBR mice, the existing literature data are still fragmentary. Here, we used inflammation induced by low-dose lipopolysaccharide, polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid, or their combinations, in mice of strains BTBR T+Itpr3tf/J (BTBR) and C57BL6/J. Peripheral inflammation was assessed by means of a complete blood count, lymphocyte immunophenotyping, and expression levels of cytokines in the spleen. Neuroinflammation was evaluated in the hypothalamus and prefrontal cortex by analysis of mRNA levels of proinflammatory cytokines (tumor necrosis factor, Tnf), (interleukin-1 beta, Il-1β), and (interleukin-6, Il-6) and of markers of microglia activation (allograft inflammatory factor 1, Aif1) and astroglia activation (glial fibrillary acidic protein, Gfap). We found that in both strains of mice, the most severe inflammatory response was caused by the administration of polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid, whereas the combined administration of the two toll-like receptor (TLR) agonists did not enhance this response. Nonetheless, BTBR mice showed a more pronounced response to low-dose lipopolysaccharide, an altered lymphocytosis ratio due to an increase in the number of CD4+ lymphocytes, and high expression of markers of activated microglia (Aif1) and astroglia (Gfap) in various brain regions as compared to C57BL6/J mice. Thus, in addition to research into mechanisms of autism-like behavior, BTBR mice can be used as a model of TLR3/TLR4-induced neuroinflammation and a unique model for finding and evaluating the effectiveness of various TLR antagonists aimed at reducing neuroinflammation.
Up-regulation of microRNA-503 by high glucose reduces the migration and proliferation but promotes the apoptosis of human umbilical vein endothelial cells by inhibiting the expression of insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor. OBJECTIVE: The present study is aimed to investigate the regulatory effect of microRNA (miRNA or miR)-503 on endothelial functions, as well as the mechanism by which high glucose leads to injury of endothelial cells. MATERIALS AND METHODS: When reaching 80% confluency, human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) were subjected to non-serum synchronization for 12 h, and medium of cells in high-glucose (HG) group was replaced by normal medium supplemented with 25 mmol/L D-glucose. HUVECs cultured in normal glucose (NG) medium were used as control. To overex-press miR-503, HUVECs were transfected with miR-503 mimics. To silence insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor (IGF-1R) mRNA, HUVECs were transfected with small interfering RNA (siRNA). To predict whether miR-503 targets IGF-1R, bio-informatics was performed. Quantitative Real-time polymerase chain reaction was used to determine miR-503 and IGF-1R mRNA expression, and Western blotting was employed to measure IGF-1R protein expression. Cell-Counting Kit 8 assay was used to determine HUVECs proliferation, while wound-healing assay was used to evaluate HUVECs migration. HUVECs apoptosis was investigated by measuring caspase 3 activity. RESULTS: Expression of IGF-1R in HUVECs in high glucose was decreased compared to that in normal glucose. miR-503 was predicted to target IGF-1R mRNA, and miR-503 expression in HUVECs in high glucose was higher than that in normal glucose. Overexpression of miR-503 inhibited the transcription and the translation of IGF-1R gene reducing migration, suppressed proliferation and promoted apoptosis. Transfection with IGF-1R siRNA decreased IGF-1R protein expression in HUVECs. Down-regulated IGF-1R expression reduced migration and proliferation, but promoted apoptosis of HUVECs. CONCLUSIONS: The present study demonstrates that miR-503 expression in HUVECs is elevated in high glucose condition. Also, miR-503 reduces migration and proliferation, but promotes apoptosis of HUVECs by inhibiting IGF-1R expression.
Upregulation of chemokines in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus in rats with stress-Induced hypertension. Background: The neuroinflammation of paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus has been implicated in the development of hypertension. The promoted invasion of peripheral immune cells into PVN may be attributed to the upregulation of chemokines, then exacerbating neuroinflammation. We studied the expressions of chemokines, activation of microglial cells, and inflammatory mediators in PVN of rats with stress-induced hypertension (SIH). Material/Methods: SIH was induced by electrical foot shock combined with noise for 2 h twice a day, at an interval of 4 h for 14 consecutive days. At the end of the 14th day, fresh PVN tissues were collected to measure the expressions of chemokines using the RayBiotech antibody array. Results: We are the first to report that the expression of CXCL7 was extremely high in PVN of control rats, and was significantly lower in SIH rats. The expressions of CCL2 and CX3CL1 in PVN of SIH rats significantly exceeded those of control rats. The numbers of CX3CR1 (receptor of CX3CL1)-immunostained cells and oxycocin-42 (OX-42, marker of microglia)-positive cells increased in PVN of the SIH rats. The stress enhanced the protein expressions of proinflammatory cytokines IL-6 and IL-17 and reduced those of anti-inflammatory cytokines TGF-b and IL-10 in PVN. Conclusions: In PVN of SIH rats, chronic stress induced neuroinflammation characterized by the activated microglia and upregulated proinflammatory cytokines. Expressions of chemokines CXCL7, CX3CL1, and CCL2 were altered. The causal link of chemokines to PVN neuroinflammation and hypertension remain to be determined.
Upregulation of long non-coding RNA DQ786243 promotes the progression of gastric cancer. Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) have been identified as key regulatory factors in various biological processes. Their dysregulation has been observed in several types of human cancer, including gastric cancer (GC). The aim of the present study was to investigate the putative roles of the lncRNA DQ786243 in the progression of GC, as well as evaluate its diagnostic and therapeutic potential in GC. The expression of DQ786243 in 82 pairs of GC tissues and adjacent healthy tissues, as well as in three GC cell lines and a human normal gastric epithelial cell line, was assessed using reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction. In addition, the putative correlation between the expression of DQ786243 and various clinicopathological features of GC was investigated. Furthermore, the effects of silencing DQ786243 in GC cells were examined using RNA interference. Colony formation and Cell Counting kit-8 assays were used to evaluate the effects of DQ786243 on GC cell proliferation, and Transwell and wound healing assays were used to examine GC cell migration and invasion. The results of the present study demonstrated that the expression of DQ786243 was significantly upregulated in GC tissues and cell lines compared with healthy control tissues and cells. Correlation analysis revealed a significant association between the expression of DQ786243 and the TNM stage, tumor size, depth of invasion and presence of lymph node metastasis in patients with GC. Furthermore, silencing the DQ786243 was demonstrated to inhibit proliferation, and impair the migration and invasion of GC cells. The present results suggested that DQ786243 may function as an oncogenic regulator via promoting the proliferation and metastasis of GC cells. Therefore, DQ786243 may have potential as a novel biomarker for the diagnosis of GC, and may also be a promising candidate for the development of novel therapeutic approaches for the treatment of patients with GC.
Uridylation by TUT4/7 Restricts Retrotransposition of Human LINE-1s. LINE-1 retrotransposition is tightly restricted by layers of regulatory control, with epigenetic pathways being the best characterized. Looking at post-transcriptional regulation, we now show that LINE-1 mRNA 3′ ends are pervasively uridylated in various human cellular models and in mouse testes. TUT4 and TUT7 uridyltransferases catalyze the modification and function in cooperation with the helicase/RNPase MOV10 to counteract the RNA chaperone activity of the L1-ORF1p retrotransposon protein. Uridylation potently restricts LINE-1 retrotransposition by a multilayer mechanism depending on differential subcellular localization of the uridyltransferases. We propose that uridine residues added by TUT7 in the cytoplasm inhibit initiation of reverse transcription of LINE-1 mRNAs once they are reimported to the nucleus, whereas uridylation by TUT4, which is enriched in cytoplasmic foci, destabilizes mRNAs. These results provide a model for the post-transcriptional restriction of LINE-1, revealing a key physiological role for TUT4/7-mediated uridylation in maintaining genome stability. Post-transcriptional modification of LINE-1 mRNAs offers a general way to restrict retrotransposition across cell types to maintain genome integrity.
Urocortin stimulates tyrosine hydroxylase activity via the cAMP/protein kinase A pathway in rat Pheochromocytoma PC12 cells. Urocortin is a novel mammalian member of the corticotrophin releasing factor (CRF)-related peptides. We have investigated the expression, mechanism of action and second messenger for urocortin in rat pheochromocytoma PC12 cells. We initially confirmed the expression of urocortin and CRF-R2β, which is thought to be an endogenous receptor for urocortin, in PC12 cells. We also demonstrate that urocortin (≥1 nM) significantly elevates the level of cAMP in these cells. Moreover, α-helical CRF-(9-41), a more specific antagonist of CRF-R2 than CRF-R1 and the adenylate cyclase inhibitor SQ22536, inhibited the urocortin-induced increase in the level of cAMP. Thus, urocortin may exert its physiological role in chromaffin cells via CRF-R2β coupling to adenylate cyclase. Urocortin (≥1 nM) significantly increased the mRNA level and activity of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), a rate-limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of catecholamine. Furthermore, urocortin-induced changes in TH-mRNA and activity were inhibited by H89 (a PKA inhibitor) and SQ22536 as well as α-helical CRF-(9-41). However, urocortin did not affect DNA synthesis or catecholamine secretion in these cells. In conclusion, we have demonstrated that urocortin stimulates catecholamine biosynthesis via the cAMP/protein kinase A pathway in PC12 cells, where both urocortin and its receptor, CRF-R2, are expressed.
Vaccinia Virus Protein C6 Inhibits Type I IFN Signalling in the Nucleus and Binds to the Transactivation Domain of STAT2. The type I interferon (IFN) response is a crucial innate immune signalling pathway required for defense against viral infection. Accordingly, the great majority of mammalian viruses possess means to inhibit this important host immune response. Here we show that vaccinia virus (VACV) strain Western Reserve protein C6, is a dual function protein that inhibits the cellular response to type I IFNs in addition to its published function as an inhibitor of IRF-3 activation, thereby restricting type I IFN production from infected cells. Ectopic expression of C6 inhibits the induction of interferon stimulated genes (ISGs) in response to IFNα treatment at both the mRNA and protein level. C6 inhibits the IFNα-induced Janus kinase/signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK/STAT) signalling pathway at a late stage, downstream of STAT1 and STAT2 phosphorylation, nuclear translocation and binding of the interferon stimulated gene factor 3 (ISGF3) complex to the interferon stimulated response element (ISRE). Mechanistically, C6 associates with the transactivation domain of STAT2 and this might explain how C6 inhibits the type I IFN signalling very late in the pathway. During virus infection C6 reduces ISRE-dependent gene expression despite the presence of the viral protein phosphatase VH1 that dephosphorylates STAT1 and STAT2. The ability of a cytoplasmic replicating virus to dampen the immune response within the nucleus, and the ability of viral immunomodulators such as C6 to inhibit multiple stages of the innate immune response by distinct mechanisms, emphasizes the intricacies of host-pathogen interactions and viral immune evasion.
Virion protein 16 induces demethylation of DNA integrated within chromatin in a novel mammalian cell model. DNA methylation and demethylation play important roles in mediating epigenetic regulation. So far, the mechanism of DNA demethylation remains elusive and controversial. Here, we constructed a plasmid, named with pCBS-luc, that contained an artificial CpG island, eight Gal4 DNA-binding domain binding site, an SV40 promoter, and a firefly luciferase reporter gene. The linearized pCBS-luc plasmid was methylated in vitro by DNA methyltransferase, and transfected into the HEK293 cells. The stable HEK293 transfectants with methylated pCBS-luc (me-pCBS-luc) were selected and obtained. The methylation status of the selected stable cell lines were confirmed by bisulfite sequencing polymerase chain reaction amplification. The methylation status could be maintained even after 15 passages. The virion protein 16 (VP16) was reported to enhance DNA demethylation around its binding sites of the promoter region in Xenopus fertilized eggs. Using our me-pCBS-luc model, we found that VP16 also had the ability to activate the expression of methylated luciferase reporter gene and induce DNA demethylation in chromatin DNA in mammalian cells. Altogether, we constructed a cell model stably integrated with the me-pCBS-luc reporter plasmid, and in this model we found that VP16 could lead to DNA demethylation. We believe that this cell model will have many potential applications in the future research on DNA demethylation and dynamic process of chromatin modification.
What is the Role of Thyroid Hormone Receptor Alpha 2 (TRα2) in Human Physiology?. Thyroid hormone receptors are nuclear receptors that function as transcription factors and are regulated by thyroid hormones. To date, a number of variants and isoforms are known. This review focuses on the thyroid hormone receptor α (TRα), in particular TRα2, an isoform that arises from alternative splicing of the THRA mRNA transcript. Unlike the TRα1 isoform, which can bind T3, the TRα2 isoform lacks a ligand-binding domain but still binds to DNA thereby antagonizing the transcriptional activity of TRα1. Although a regulatory role has been proposed, the physiological function of this TRα2 antagonism is still unclear due to limited in vitro and mouse model data. Recently, the first patients with resistance to thyroid hormone due to mutations in THRA, the TRα encoding gene, affecting the antagonistic function of TRα2 were described, suggesting a significant role of this particular isoform in human physiology.
Widespread contribution of transposable elements to the innovation of gene regulatory networks. Transposable elements (TEs) have been shown to contain functional binding sites for certain transcription factors (TFs). However, the extent to which TEs contribute to the evolution of TF binding sites is not well known. We comprehensively mapped binding sites for 26 pairs of orthologous TFs in two pairs of human and mouse cell lines (representing two cell lineages), along with epigenomic profiles, including DNA methylation and six histone modifications. Overall, we found that 20% of binding sites were embedded within TEs. This number varied across different TFs, ranging from 2% to 40%. We further identified 710 TF-TE relationships in which genomic copies of a TE subfamily contributed a significant number of binding peaks for a TF, and we found that LTR elements dominated these relationships in human. Importantly, TE-derived binding peaks were strongly associated with open and active chromatin signatures, including reduced DNA methylation and increased enhancer-associated histone marks. On average, 66% of TE-derived binding events were cell type-specific with a cell type-specific epigenetic landscape. Most of the binding sites contributed by TEs were species-specific, but we also identified binding sites conserved between human and mouse, the functional relevance of which was supported by a signature of purifying selection on DNA sequences of these TEs. Interestingly, several TFs had significantly expanded binding site landscapes only in one species, which were linked to species-specific gene functions, suggesting that TEs are an important driving force for regulatory innovation. Taken together, our data suggest that TEs have significantly and continuously shaped gene regulatory networks during mammalian evolution.
YY1-induced upregulation of lncRNA NEAT1 contributes to OGD/R injury-induced inflammatory response in cerebral microglial cells via Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway. Stroke can lead to the serious long-term neurological disability. The dysregulation of long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) has been proven to be a pivotal factor for the progression of ischemic stroke. However, it is largely unknown whether lncRNAs regulated the OGD/R injury of cerebral microglial cells. In this study, we designed experiments to reveal the role of lncRNA Nuclear Enriched Abundant Transcript 1 (NEAT1) in the OGD/R injury of microglial cells. We found that NEAT1 contributed to the OGD/R injury and neuroinflammation damage in microglial cells. Moreover, the molecular mechanism involved in the NEAT1-mediated OGD/R injury. Mechanism investigation revealed that NEAT1 was upregulated by the transcription factor YY1. Moreover, Western blot analysis suggested that NEAT1 enhance the protein levels of core factors of Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway, indicating that NEAT1 contributed to the activation of Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway. Rescue assays were carried out in the microglial cells treated with OGD/R. The results showed that NEAT1 regulated the OGD/R injury and neuroinflammation damage via Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway. In conclusion, our findings suggested that YY1-induced upregulation of NEAT1 contributed to the OGD/R injury and neuroinflammation damage of microglial cells via Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway.
Yap is essential for retinal progenitor cell cycle progression and RPE cell fate acquisition in the developing mouse eye. Yap functions as a transcriptional regulator by acting together with sequence-specific DNA binding factors and transcription cofactors to mediate cell proliferation in developing epithelial tissues and tumors. An upstream kinase cascade controls nuclear localization and function in response to partially identified exogenous signals, including cell-to-cell contact. Nevertheless, its role in CNS development is poorly understood. In order to investigate Yap function in developing CNS, we characterized the cellular outcomes after selective Yap gene ablation in developing ocular tissues. When Yap was lost, presumptive retinal pigment epithelium acquired anatomical and molecular characteristics resembling those of the retinal epithelium rather than of RPE, including loss of pigmentation, pseudostratified epithelial morphology and ectopic induction of markers for retinal progenitor cells, like Chx10, and neurons, like β-Tubulin III. In addition, developing retina showed signs of progressive degeneration, including laminar folding, thinning and cell loss, which resulted from multiple defects in cell proliferation and survival, and in junction integrity. Furthermore, Yap-deficient retinal progenitors displayed decreased S-phase cells and altered cell cycle progression. Altogether, our studies not only illustrate the canonical function of Yap in promoting the proliferation of progenitors, but also shed new light on its evolutionarily conserved, instructive role in regional specification, maintenance of junctional integrity and precise regulation of cell proliferation during neuroepithelial development.
ZNF191 alters DNA methylation and activates the PI3K-AKT pathway in hepatoma cells via transcriptional regulation of DNMT1. Background: Alteration of DNA methylation is an important event in pathogenesis and progression of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). DNA methyltransferase (DNMT) 1, the foremost contributor in DNA methylation machinery, was revealed elevated in HCC and significantly correlates with poor prognosis. However, the transcriptional regulation of DNMT1 in HCC remains unknown. Methods: Real-time PCR and immunohistochemistry were performed to detect DNMT1 and zinc finger transcription factor 191 (ZNF191) expressions in HCCs. Transcription activity of DNMT1promoter was analyzed with Luciferase reporter activity assay. The binding capacity of ZNF191 protein to DNMT1 promoter was examined with chromatin immunoprecipitation-qPCR (ChIP-qPCR) and electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA). DNA methylation level of hepatoma cells was detected with Methylation array. Results: ZNF191 can regulate DNMT1 mRNA and protein expression positively, and increase the transcription activity of the DNMT1 promoter. ChIP-qPCR and EMSA revealed that ZNF191 protein directly binds to the DNMT1 promoter at nt-240 AT(TCAT)3TC. Moreover, DNMT1 and ZNF191 expression correlate positively in human HCCs. With methylation array, DNA methylation alteration was observed in hepatoma cells with ZNF191 knockdown, and the differential methylation sites are enriched in the PI3K-AKT pathway. Furthermore, we proved DNMT1 contributes the effect of ZNF191 on hepatoma cell growth via the PI3K-AKT pathway. Conclusion: ZNF191 is a novel transcription regulator for DNMT1, and the pro-proliferation effect of ZNF191/DNMT1/p-AKT axis in hepatoma cells implies that ZNF191 status in HCCs may affect the therapeutic effect of DNMTs inhibitors and PI3K inhibitors for precise treatment of the disease.
[Comparative characteristics of new human embryonic stem cell lines SC5, SC6, SC7, and SC3a]. Numerous human embryonic stem cell lines with different genetic background are widely used as cell models for fundamental, biomedical and pharmacological research. New hES cell lines SC5, SC6, SC7, and SC3a are derived from the blastocysts and maintained on mitotically inactivated human feeder cells. All derived hES cell lines passed through more than 120 cell population doublings, retained normal diploid karyotype and ability of in vitro differentiation in the derivates of three germ layers. These lines express the markers of undifferentiated hES cells: Oct-4, Nanog, SSEA-4, TRA-1-60, and alkaline phosphatase. Moreover, undifferentiated cells of SC5, SC6, and SC7 lines expressed germ line specific genes DPPA3/STELLA and DAZL and did not express somatic lineages specific genes. In contrast, undifferentiated cells of SC3a line did not express DPPA3/STELLA and DAZL but expressed extra embryonic endoderm cell markers GATA4 and AFP. Double staining of SC5 and SC3a colonies by antibodies against transcription factors Oct-4 and GATA4 has demonstrated that most SC3a cells in colonies were positive for both factors. Furthermore, the cells of SC5, SC6, SC7 lines but not of SC3a line formed teratomas containing the derivates of the three germ layers. These results indicate that, in contrast to the other cell lines, the cells in the SC3a colonies represent an early committed cell population. Moreover, expression of the multidrug resistance transporter gene ABCG2 was detected in undifferentiated cells and differentiating embryonic bodies during 10 days of all lines by immunofluorescent and RT-PCR analyses, whereas RT-PCR analysis has revealed up-regulation of the ABCB1 transporter gene expression in differentiating embryoid bodies of SC5, SC6, and SC7 cells only. Thus, these findings demonstrate different characteristics and differentiation potential of SC5, SC6, SC7, and SC3a hES cell lines which were derived in different conditions.
c-myc promoter binding protein regulates the cellular response to an altered glucose concentration. α-Enolase is a bifunctional gene encoding both a glycolytic enzyme and a DNA binding protein, c-myc binding protein (MBP-1). MBP-1 binds the c-myc promoter and downregulates c-myc transcription. Since these α-enolase gene products have important functions in glucose metabolism and growth regulation, this gene may play a central role in regulating the abnormal proliferative characteristics of transformed cells. To determine the role of α-enolase and MBP-1 in the cellular response to altered exogenous glucose concentration, MCF-7 cells were cultured in low (1 nM), physiological (5 mM), or high (25 mM) levels of glucose. Levels of α-enolase, MBP-1, and c-myc expression were compared to levels of cell proliferation and lactate production. At all glucose concentrations, MCF-7 cells demonstrated an initial increase in MBP-1 expression and a parallel decrease in c-myc transcript levels, which were accompanied by decreased proliferation. Cells grown in low glucose maintained the increased MBP-1 expression through 48 h, resulting in persistently lower rates of proliferation. However, physiologic or high glucose levels resulted in decreased MBP-1 expression, which was associated with increased cellular proliferation and lactate production. In these cells, c-myc mRNA returned to control levels as MBP-1 expression decreased. Cells grown in low glucose demonstrated a dramatic increase in c-myc mRNA at 48 h, which was associated with a loss in c-myc P 2 promoter binding by MBP-1. This suggests that post-translational modifications of MBP-1 likely alter its DNA binding activity. These results demonstrate an important role for MBP-1 in the altered cell proliferation and energy utilization that occur in response to an altered glucose concentration.
mTOR transcriptionally and post-transcriptionally regulates Npm1 gene expression to contribute to enhanced proliferation in cells with Pten inactivation. ABSTRACT: The mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) plays essential roles in the regulation of growth-related processes such as protein synthesis, cell sizing and metabolism in both normal and pathological growing conditions. These functions of mTOR are thought to be largely a consequence of its cytoplasmic activity in regulating translation rate, but accumulating data highlight supplementary role(s) for this serine/threonine kinase within the nucleus. Indeed, the nuclear activities of mTOR are currently associated with the control of protein biosynthetic capacity through its ability to regulate the expression of gene products involved in the control of ribosomal biogenesis and proliferation. Using primary murine embryo fibroblasts (MEFs), we observed that cells with overactive mTOR signaling displayed higher abundance for the growth-associated Npm1 protein, in what represents a novel mechanism of Npm1 gene regulation. We show that Npm1 gene expression is dependent on mTOR as demonstrated by treatment of wild-type and Pten inactivated MEFs cultured with rapamycin or by transient transfections of small interfering RNA directed against mTOR. In accordance, the mTOR kinase localizes to the Npm1 promoter gene in vivo and it enhances the activity of a human NPM1-luciferase reporter gene providing an opportunity for direct control. Interestingly, rapamycin did not dislodge mTOR from the Npm1 promoter but rather strongly destabilized the Npm1 transcript by increasing its turnover. Using a prostate-specific Pten-deleted mouse model of cancer, Npm1 mRNA levels were found up-regulated and sensitive to rapamycin. Finally, we also showed that Npm1 is required to promote mTOR-dependent cell proliferation. We therefore proposed a model whereby mTOR is closely involved in the transcriptional and posttranscriptional regulation of Npm1 gene expression with implications in development and diseases including cancer.
microRNA-7 as a tumor suppressor and novel therapeutic for adrenocortical carcinoma. Adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC) has a poor prognosis with significant unmet clinical need due to late diagnosis, high rates of recurrence/metastasis and poor response to conventional treatment. Replacing tumor suppressor microRNAs (miRNAs) offer a novel therapy, however systemic delivery remains challenging. A number of miRNAs have been described to be under-expressed in ACC however it is not known if they form a part of ACC pathogenesis. Here we report that microRNA-7-5p (miR-7) reduces cell proliferation in vitro and induces G1 cell cycle arrest. Systemic miR-7 administration in a targeted, clinically safe delivery vesicle (EGFREDVTM nanocells) reduces ACC xenograft growth originating from both ACC cell lines and primary ACC cells. Mechanistically, miR-7 targets Raf-1 proto-oncogene serine/ threonine kinase (RAF1) and mechanistic target of rapamycin (MTOR). Additionally, miR-7 therapy in vivo leads to inhibition of cyclin dependent kinase 1 (CDK1). In patient ACC samples, CDK1 is overexpressed and miR-7 expression inversely related. In summary, miR-7 inhibits multiple oncogenic pathways and reduces ACC growth when systemically delivered using EDVTM nanoparticles. This data is the first study in ACC investigating the possibility of miRNAs replacement as a novel therapy.
p38 Mitogen-activated protein kinase regulates cyclooxygenase-2 mRNA stability and transcription in lipopolysaccharide-treated human monocytes. p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) is activated by inflammatory stimuli such as bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS), interleukin-1, and tumor necrosis factor. We have previously shown that the pyridinyl imidazole SB 203580, which inhibits it, blocks the interleukin-1 induction of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and matrix metalloproteinase 1 and 3 mRNAs in fibroblasts. Here we explore the role of p38 MAPK in the response of human monocytes to LPS. 0.1 μM SB 203580 significantly inhibited the LPS induction of COX-2 and tumor necrosis factor protein and mRNAs. The activity of MAPK- activated protein kinase-2 (a substrate of p38 MAPK) in the cells was commensurately reduced. Some isoforms of c-jun N-terminal kinase (which is also activated by LPS) are sensitive to SB 203580; the inhibitor had little effect on monocyte c-jun N-terminal kinases up to 2 μM. We investigated the mechanism of inhibition of COX-2 induction. Transcription (measured by a nuclear run-on assay) was 60% inhibited by SB 203580 (2 μM). Importantly, we found that p38 MAPK was essential for stabilizing COX-2 mRNA: when cells stimulated for 4 h with LPS were treated with actinomycin D, COX-2 mRNA decayed slowly. Treatment of stimulated cells with 2 μM SB 203580 caused a rapid disappearance of COX-2 mRNA, even with actinomycin D present. We conclude p38 MAPK plays a role in the transcription and stabilization of COX- 2 mRNA.
p52 signaling promotes cellular senescence. Background: Nuclear factor-κB is a multi-subunit transcription factor that plays a central role in cellular senescence. We previously reported that an increase in the p52 subunit is seen in senescent cells and aged tissue. In the current work, we examined the mechanism by which p52 is activated and whether the increase in p52 promotes senescence. Results: Using both primary mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) and WI-38 human lung fibroblasts, we examined cells after serial passage and following prolonged culture. An increase in p52 was found in the nucleus relative to pre-senescent cells. The increase in p52 protein was not reflected by an increase in NFKB2 mRNA or by an increase in the abundance of upstream activating kinases, IKKα and NIK. To examine whether p52 promotes senescence, we over-expressed mature p52 in primary MEFs. Significantly more senescence was seen compared to control, a finding not seen with p52 mutated at critical DNA binding residues. In addition, blocking p52 nuclear translocation with the peptide inhibitor, SN52, decreased β-galactosidase (β-gal) formation. Subsequent filtration studies demonstrated that proteins in conditioned media (CM) were necessary for the increase in p52 and mass spectrometry identified S100A4 and cyclophilin A (CYPA) as potential factors in CM necessary for induction of p52. The requirement of these proteins in CM for induction of p52 was confirmed using depletion and supplementation studies. In addition, we found that activation of STAT3 signaling was required for the increase in p52. Finally, genome wide ChIP-sequencing analysis confirmed that there is an increase in p52 chromatin enrichment with senescence and identified several downstream factors whose expression is regulated by increased p52 binding. Conclusions: These results demonstrate that p52 nuclear translocation is increased in senescent cells by factors in conditioned media and that mature p52 induces cellular senescence. The data are consistent with the prior observation that p52 is elevated in aged tissue and support the hypothesis that p52 contributes to organismal aging.
piR-823 contributes to colorectal tumorigenesis by enhancing the transcriptional activity of HSF1. Piwi-interacting RNAs (piRNAs), a novel class of small non-coding RNAs, were first discovered in germline cells and are thought to silence transposons in spermatogenesis. Recently, piRNAs have also been identified in somatic tissues, and aberrant expression of piRNAs in tumor tissues may be implicated in carcinogenesis. However, the function of piR-823 in colorectal cancer (CRC) remains unclear. Here, we first found that piR-823 was significantly upregulated in CRC tissues compared with its expression in the adjacent tissues. Inhibition of piR-823 suppressed cell proliferation, arrested the cell cycle in the G1 phase and induced cell apoptosis in CRC cell lines HCT116 and DLD-1, whereas overexpression of piR-823 promoted cell proliferation in normal colonic epithelial cell line FHC. Interestingly, Inhibition of piR-823 repressed the expression of heat shock protein (HSP) 27, 60, 70. Furthermore, elevated HSPs expression partially abolished the effect of piR-823 on cell proliferation and apoptosis. In addition, we further demonstrated that piR-823 increased the transcriptional activity of HSF1, the common transcription factor of HSPs, by binding to HSF1 and promoting its phosphorylation at Ser326. Our study reveals that piR-823 plays a tumor-promoting role by upregulating phosphorylation and transcriptional activity of HSF1 and suggests piR-823 as a potential therapeutic target for CRC.
β -Lapachone Regulates Obesity through Modulating Thermogenesis in Brown Adipose Tissue and Adipocytes: Role of AMPK Signaling Pathway. Activation of brown adipose tissue (BAT) has been proposed as a promising target against obesity due to its increased capacity for thermogenesis. In this study, we explored the effect of β-Lapachone (βL), a compound obtained from the bark of the lapacho tree, against obesity. In vivo administration of βL into either high fat diet (HFD)-induced obese C57BL6 mice and genetically obese Lepr- mice prevented body weight gain, which was associated with tissue weight loss of white adipose tissue (WAT). In addition, βL elevated thermogenic proteins including uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1) and mitochondrial count in BAT and human adipose tissue-derived mesenchymal stem cells (hAMSCs). βL also induced AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) phosphorylation, subsequent upregulation of acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC) and UCP1, and these effects were diminished by AMPK inhibitor compound C, suggesting that AMPK underlies the effects of βL. Mitogen-activated protein kinase pathways participated in the thermogenesis of βL, specifically p38, c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) were activated by βL treatment in hAMSCs. Additionally, inhibitors of p38/JNK/ERK1/2 abrogated the activity of βL. Taken together, βL exerts anti-obese effects by inducing thermogenesis mediated by AMPK signaling pathway, suggesting that βL may have a potential therapeutic implication of obesity. Taken together, βL exerts anti-obese effects by not only inducing thermogenesis on brown adipocytes but also inducing the browning of white adipocytes. The anti-obese effect of βL is mediated by AMPK signaling pathway, suggesting that βL may have potential therapeutic implication of obesity.
β+-Thalassemia in cis of a sickle cell gene: Occurrence of a promoter mutation on a β(S) chromosome. An atypical sickle cell trait with a very low level of hemoglobin S and features of heterozygous β-thalassemia was recently described. In vitro globin chain synthesis strongly suggested the presence of the two abnormalities on the same chromosome. We report the corresponding β(s-thal) gene. DNA sequence revealed a C→T base substitution in the distal promoter element CACCC, at position -88 from the cap site, in addition to the expected GAG→GTG mutation responsible for the structural variant (β 6 Glu→Val). Reticulocyte mRNA titration and transient assay of the mutant gene in COS cells showed a defect in β-mRNA production. Restriction haplotype and DNA sequence analyses revealed that the doubly mutated gene is associated with haplotype 19 (or Benin/Algeria haplotype). In particular, we found the (AT)9(T)4 repeated sequences specifically encountered 5' to the β(S) gene of Benin/Algeria type. These results support the view that the β(S-thal) gene resulted from an independent thalassemic mutation having occurred on a β(S) chromosome rather than (a) from a β(S) mutation having altered a β-thalassemic gene or (b) from a recombination event between two chromosomes, each carrying one of the mutations.
β-Arrestin2 Regulates Lysophosphatidic Acid-Induced Human Breast Tumor Cell Migration and Invasion via Rap1 and IQGAP1. β-arrestins play critical roles in chemotaxis and cytoskeletal reorganization downstream of several receptor types, including G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), which are targets for greater than 50% of all pharmaceuticals. Among them, receptors for lysophosphatidic acid (LPA), namely LPA1 are overexpressed in breast cancer and promote metastatic spread. We have recently reported that β-arrestin2 regulates LPA1-mediated breast cancer cell migration and invasion, although the underlying molecular mechanisms are not clearly understood. We show here that LPA induces activity of the small G protein, Rap1 in breast cancer cells in a β-arrestin2-dependent manner, but fails to activate Rap1 in non-malignant mammary epithelial cells. We found that Rap1A mRNA levels are higher in human breast tumors compared to healthy patient samples and Rap1A is robustly expressed in human ductal carcinoma in situ and invasive tumors, in contrast to the normal mammary ducts. Rap1A protein expression is also higher in aggressive breast cancer cells (MDA-MB-231 and Hs578t) relative to the weakly invasive MCF-7 cells or non-malignant MCF10A mammary cells. Depletion of Rap1A expression significantly impaired LPA-stimulated migration of breast cancer cells and invasiveness in three-dimensional Matrigel cultures. Furthermore, we found that β-arrestin2 associates with the actin binding protein IQGAP1 in breast cancer cells, and is necessary for the recruitment of IQGAP1 to the leading edge of migratory cells. Depletion of IQGAP1 blocked LPA-stimulated breast cancer cell invasion. Finally, we have identified that LPA enhances the binding of endogenous Rap1A to β-arrestin2, and also stimulates Rap1A and IQGAP1 to associate with LPA1. Thus our data establish novel roles for Rap1A and IQGAP1 as critical regulators of LPA-induced breast cancer cell migration and invasion.
β-catenin cancer–enhancing genomic regions axis is involved in the development of fibrolamellar hepatocellular carcinoma. Fibrolamellar hepatocellular carcinoma (FLC) is a disease that occurs in children and young adults. The development of FLC is associated with creation of a fusion oncoprotein DNAJB1-PKAc kinase, which activates multiple cancer-associated pathways. The aim of this study was to examine the role of human genomic regions, called cancer-enhancing genomic regions or aggressive liver cancer domains (CEGRs/ALCDs), in the development of FLC. Previous studies revealed that CEGRs/ALCDs are located in multiple oncogenes and cancer-associated genes, regularly silenced in normal tissues. Using the regulatory element locus intersection (RELI) algorithm, we searched a large compendium of chromatin immunoprecipitation–sequencing (ChIP) data sets and found that CEGRs/ALCDs contain regulatory elements in several human cancers outside of pediatric hepatic neoplasms. The RELI algorithm further identified components of the β-catenin–TCF7L2/TCF4 pathway, which interacts with CEGRs/ALCDs in several human cancers. Particularly, the RELI algorithm found interactions of transcription factors and chromatin remodelers with many genes that are activated in patients with FLC. We found that these FLC-specific genes contain CEGRs/ALCDs, and that the driver of FLC, fusion oncoprotein DNAJB1-PKAc, phosphorylates β-catenin at Ser675, resulting in an increase of β-catenin–TCF7L2/TCF4 complexes. These complexes increase a large family of CEGR/ALCD-dependent collagens and oncogenes. The DNAJB1-PKAc–β-catenin–CEGR/ALCD pathway is preserved in lung metastasis. The inhibition of β-catenin in FLC organoids inhibited the expression of CEGRs/ALCDs-dependent collagens and oncogenes, preventing the formation of the organoid's structure. Conclusion: This study provides a rationale for the development of β-catenin-based therapy for patients with FLC.
High-resolution mapping of crossovers reveals extensive variation in fine-scale recombination patterns among humans. Recombination plays a crucial role in meiosis, ensuring the proper segregation of chromosomes. Recent linkage disequilibrium (LD) and sperm-typing studies suggest that recombination rates vary tremendously across the human genome, with most events occurring in narrow "hotspots." To examine variation in fine-scale recombination patterns among individuals, we used dense, genome-wide single-nucleotide polymorphism data collected in nuclear families to localize crossovers with high spatial resolution. This analysis revealed that overall recombination hotspot usage is similar in males and females, with individual hotspots often active in both sexes. Across the genome, roughly 60% of crossovers occurred in hotspots inferred from LD studies. Notably, however, we found extensive and heritable variation among both males and females in the proportion of crossovers occurring in these hotspots.
Local adaptation and the evolution of inversions on sex chromosomes and autosomes. Spatially varying selection with gene flow can favour the evolution of inversions that bind locally adapted alleles together, facilitate local adaptation and ultimately drive genomic divergence between species. Several studies have shown that the rates of spread and establishment of new inversions capturing locally adaptive alleles depend on a suite of evolutionary factors, including the strength of selection for local adaptation, rates of gene flow and recombination, and the deleterious mutation load carried by inversions. Because the balance of these factors is expected to differ between X (or Z) chromosomes and autosomes, opportunities for inversion evolution are likely to systematically differ between these genomic regions, though such scenarios have not been formally modelled. Here, we consider the evolutionary dynamics of X-linked and autosomal inversions in populations evolving at a balance between migration and local selection. We identify three factors that lead to asymmetric rates of X-linked and autosome inversion establishment: (1) sex-biased migration, (2) dominance of locally adapted alleles and (3) chromosome-specific deleterious mutation loads. This theory predicts an elevated rate of fixation, and depressed opportunities for polymorphism, for X-linked inversions. Our survey of data on the genomic distribution of polymorphic and fixed inversions supports both theoretical predictions. This article is part of the theme issue 'Linking local adaptation with the evolution of sex differences'.
High-resolution mapping of crossovers in human sperm defines a minisatellite-associated recombination hotspot. Little is known about the fine-scale distribution of meiotic crossovers in human chromosomes. Methods have therefore been developed for detecting and mapping recombination products directly in human sperm DNA. Analysis of crossovers adjacent to the GC-rich minisatellite MS32, which is known to mutate by conversion and crossover within the repeat array, revealed an intense and highly localized recombination hotspot centered upstream of the locus and extending into the beginning of the minisatellite. Allele-specific cosuppression of crossovers and repeat instability suggests that the hotspot is responsible for driving repeat turnover at MS32 and thus that minisatellites might evolve as by-products of localized meiotic recombination in the human genome.
Hereditary hypertension caused by chimaeric gene duplications and ectopic expression of aldosterone synthase. Patients with glucocorticoid−remediable aldosteronism (GRA) from 12 kindreds possess chimaeric gene duplications arising from unequal crossing−over, fusing regulatory sequences of steroid 11beta−hydroxylase to coding sequences of aldosterone synthase. These chimaeric genes are specific for GRA and explain the biochemistry, physiology and genetics of this form of hypertension. Sites of crossing over range from intron 2 to intron 4. Most mutations have arisen independently from either sister or non−sister chromatid exchange between these genes, which are only 45 kilobases apart. The possibility of a susceptibility allele for GRA of Irish origin is suggested. These findings indicate the utility of a direct genetic test for this disorder.
Association of CR1, CLU and PICALM with Alzheimer's disease in a cohort of clinically characterized and neuropathologically verified individuals. In this study, we assess 34 of the most replicated genetic associations for Alzheimer's disease (AD) using data generated on Affymetrix SNP 6.0 arrays and imputed at over 5.7 million markers from a unique cohort of over 1600 neuropathologically defined AD cases and controls (1019 cases and 591 controls). Testing the top genes from the AlzGene meta-analysis, we confirm the well-known association with APOE single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), the CLU, PICALM and CR1 SNPs recently implicated in unusually large data sets, and previously implicated CST3 and ACE SNPs. In the cases of CLU, PICALM and CR1,aswell as in APOE, the odds ratios we find are slightly larger than those previously reported in clinical samples, consistent with what we believe to be more accurate classification of disease in the clinically characterized and neuropathologically confirmed AD cases and controls.
Skin tumours induced by narrowband UVB have higher frequency of p53 mutations than tumours induced by broadband UVB independent of Ogg1 genotype. Different wavelengths of ultraviolet (UV) light have different promoting effects on skin carcinogenesis. Narrowband UVB (NB-UVB) has a single-peak wavelength of 311nm and is widely used for treating skin diseases. Our previous work showed that, in comparison with conventional broadband UVB (BB-UVB), long-term exposure to NB-UVB induces higher frequency of skin cancer in mice, and it suggested that this is mediated through the formation of cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers (CPDs). To explore whether the frequency of p53 mutations in skin tumours correlates with CPD-induced mutations, we compared the frequency and types of p53 mutations between NB-UVB-induced and BB-UVB-induced malignant skin tumours produced in wild-type and Ogg1 knockout mice, which are deficient in repair of oxidative 8-oxoguanine (8-oxoG), a DNA damage mediated by reactive oxygen species (ROS). The frequency of p53 mutation was significantly higher in NB-UVB-induced than in BB-UVB-induced tumours in both wild-type and Ogg1 knockout mice. Most of the p53 mutations found were G:C → A:T transitions at dipyrimidine sites in both the NB-UVB- and BB-UVB-exposed groups. However, G:C → T:A mutations caused by 8-oxoG did not increase in Ogg1 knockout mice exposed to either NB-UVB or BB-UVB. Our results strongly suggest that NB-UVB induces highly malignant tumours caused by p53 dipyrimidine mutations through the formation of CPDs.
Deciphering the Causal Role of sPLA2s and Lp-PLA2 in Coronary Heart Disease. Over the last 10 to 15 years, animal and human observational studies have identified elevated levels of both proinflammatory secretory phospholipase A2-IIA and lipoprotein-associated phospholipase A2 as potential risk factors for coronary heart disease. However, Mendelian randomization, a genetic tool to test causality of a biomarker, and phase III randomized controlled trials of inhibitors of theses enzymes (varespladib and darapladib) converged to indicate that elevated levels are unlikely to be themselves causal of coronary heart disease and that inhibition had little or no clinical utility. The concordance of findings from Mendelian randomization and clinical trials suggests that for these 2 drugs, and for other novel biomarkers in future, validation of potential therapeutic targets by genetic studies (such as Mendelian randomization) before embarking on costly phase III randomized controlled trials could increase efficiency and offset the high risk of drug development, thereby facilitating discovery of new therapeutics and mitigating against the exuberant costs of drug development.
Experimental and computational analyses of calcium dynamics in 22q11.2 deletion model astrocytes. Methods for deriving mechanistic information from intracellular calcium dynamics have largely been applied to neuronal data despite the knowledge of roles of glial cells in behavior, cognition, and psychiatric disorders. Using calcium imaging, computer vision, and Bayesian kinetic inference (BKI), we analyzed calcium dynamics in primary astrocytes derived from control or Df1/+ mice, a model of 22q11.2 deletion (DiGeorge syndrome). Inference of the highest-likelihood molecular kinetic characteristics of intracellular calcium dynamics identified changes in the activity of the sarcoendoplasmic reticulum calcium ATPase (SERCA). Application of a SERCA inhibitor to wild-type astrocytes reproduced the differences detected in Df1/+ astrocytes. Our work reveals the molecular changes driving the calcium kinetics in astrocytes from a 22q11.2 deletion model. BKI can be useful for mechanistically dissecting calcium dynamics in glial cells and formulating and testing hypotheses about underlying molecular mechanisms.
Relationship between immunoexpression of mucin peptide cores MUC1 and MUC2 and Lauren's histologic subtypes of gastric carcinomas. Laurèn's system subdivides gastric cancers into an intestinal type and a diffuse type. This histological classification mirrors histogenetic hypotheses according to which the intestinal-type cancer derives from intestinal metaplasia and dysplasia, while the diffuse-type originates directly from gastric mucosa, with or without a preceding non-metaplastic dysplasia. Studies concerning mucins expression in gastric neoplastic and preneoplastic lesions have provided contradictory data concerning such histogenetic relationships. The aim of the present study was to verify whether a correlation between mucins phenotype and Lauren's classification subsists. 40 gastric adenocarcinomas, subdivided, according to Laurèn's classification, into 27 intestinal-type, 10 diffuse-type and 3 unclassified cases, were examined for MUC1 and MUC2 immunohistochemical expression. Intestinal-type carcinomas displayed a MUC1-positive staining in 23/27 cases and a MUC2-positive immunoreaction in 10/27 cases. Diffuse-type carcinomas expressed MUC1 in 3/10 and MUC2 in 8/10 cases, respectively. According to the mucins expression pattern, three phenotypes were identified: the gastric phenotype (MUC1 +/MUC2-); the gastro-intestinal phenotype (MUC1 +/MUC2+) and the intestinal phenotype (MUC1 -/MUC2+). The gastric phenotype was significantly higherin intestinal-type adenocarcinomas, whereas cases showing an intestinal phenotype were significantly more frequent in diffuse-type adenocarcinomas. These findings provide evidence for a lack of correlation between Lauren's classification and MUC1 and MUC2 phenotypes. In particular, the term intestinal-type tumour as referred to gland-forming gastric cancer does not seem to reflect an immunohistochemical phenotype.
The role of p21Waf1/CIP1 as a Cip/Kip type cell-cycle regulator in oral squamous cell carcinoma (Review). Oral Squamous Cell Carcinoma (OSCC) is biologically characterized by the accumulation of multiple genetic and molecular alterations that end up clinically characterized as a malignant neoplasm through a phenomenon known as multistep. The members of the Cip/Kip family, specifically p21Waf1/CIP1, are responsible for cell cycle control, blocking the transition from phase G1 to phase S. We made a search of articles of peer-reviewed Journals in PubMed/ Medline, crossing the keywords. The goal of this paper is to determine the relationship between p21Waf1/CIP1 expression and several clinical and pathological aspects of OSCC, their relationship with p53 and HPV, as well as genetic alterations in their expression pattern, their use as a prognosis market in the evolution of precancerous lesions and their roles in anticancer treatments. The results of p21WAF1/CIP1 expression in OSCC showed mixed results in terms of positivity/negativity throughout different studies. It seems that, although p21Waf1/CIP1 expression is controlled in a p53-dependent manner, coexpression of both in OSCC is not intrinsically related. Although the presence of HPV viral oncoproteins increases p21Waf1/CIP1 levels, the small number of studies, have forced us to disregard the hypothesis that HPV infected lesions that present better prognosis are due to a p21Waf1/CIP1-dependent control. The role of p21WAF1/CIP1 as cell-cycle regulator has been well described; however, its relationship to OSCC, the clinical and pathological variables of tumors, HPV and different treatments are not entirely clear. Thus, it would be very interesting to pursue further study of this protein, which may have a significant value for the diagnosis, prognosis and therapy of this type of tumors.
Long-read Oxford nanopore sequencing reveals a de novo case of complex chromosomal rearrangement involving chromosomes 2, 7, and 13. Background: Complex chromosomal rearrangements (CCRs) are associated with high reproductive risk, infertility, abnormalities in offspring, and recurrent miscarriage in women. It is essential to accurately characterize apparently balanced chromosome rearrangements in unaffected individuals. Methods: A CCR young couple who suffered two spontaneous abortions and underwent labor induction due to fetal chromosomal abnormalities was studied using long-read sequencing(LRS), single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) array, G-banding karyotype analysis (550-band resolution), and Sanger sequencing. Results: SNP analysis of the amniotic fluid cells during the third pregnancy revealed a 9.9-Mb duplication at 7q21.11q21.2 and a 24.8-Mb heterozygous deletion at 13q21.1q31.1. The unaffected female partner was a carrier of a three-way CCR [46,XX,? ins(7;13)(q21.1;q21.1q22)t(2;13)(p23;q22)]. Subsequent LRS analysis revealed the exact breakpoint locations on the derivative chromosomes and the specific method of chromosome rearrangement, indicating that the CCR carrier was a more complex structural rearrangement comprising five breakpoints. Furthermore, LRS detected an inserted fragment of chromosome 13 in chromosome 7. Conclusions: LRS is effective for analyzing the complex structural variations of the human genome and may be used to clarify the specific CCRs for effective genetic counseling and appropriate intervention.
Characterization of MSH2 variants by endogenous gene modification in mouse embryonic stem cells. Mutations in the mismatch repair gene MSH2 underlie hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer (Lynch syndrome). Whereas disruptive mutations are overtly pathogenic, the implications of missense mutations found in sporadic colorectal cancer patients or in suspected Lynch syndrome families are often unknown. Adequate genetic counseling of mutation carriers requires phenotypic characterization of the variant allele. We present a novel approach to functionally characterize MSH2 missense mutations. Our approach involves introduction of the mutation into the endogenous gene of murine embryonic stem cells (ESC) by oligonucleotide-directed gene modification, a technique we recently developed in our lab. Subsequently, the mismatch repair capacity of mutant ESC is determined using a set of validated functional assays. We have evaluated four clinically relevant MSH2 variants and found one to completely lack mismatch repair capacity while three behaved as wild-type MSH2 and can therefore be considered as polymorphisms. Our approach contributes to an adequate risk assessment of mismatch repair missense mutations. We have also shown that oligonucleotide-directed gene modification provides a straightforward approach to recreate allelic variants in the endogenous gene in murine ESC. This approach can be extended to other hereditary conditions.
Human estrogen receptor regulation in a yeast model system and studies on receptor agonists and antagonists. An expression system that utilized yeast copper metallothionine promoter and ubiquitin fusion technology to express the human estrogen receptor gene in yeast is described. We have studied the biochemical and transcriptional regulatory properties of the human estrogen receptor. The biochemical properties of the yeast expressed receptors are identical to the receptors isolated from human tissue. Estradiol mediated activation of transcription by the receptor was studied by a reporter β-galactosidase gene where expression was under the control of estrogen response elements. Using this expression system and a hyperpermeable yeast strain we have studied the effects of various antiestrogens on the regulation of estrogen receptor function. We demonstrate that tamoxifen and ICI 164,384 are capable of binding to the receptor but neither antiestrogen was able to block the estradiol mediated increase in transcription. In fact, both antiestrogens exerted weak agonist activity in this system.
BRN4 is a novel driver of neuroendocrine differentiation in castration-resistant prostate cancer and is selectively released in extracellular vesicles with BRN2. Purpose: Neuroendocrine prostate cancer (NEPC), an aggressive variant of castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC), often emerges after androgen receptor-targeted therapies such as enzalutamide or de novo, via trans-differentiation process of neuroendocrine differentiation. The mechanistic basis of neuroendocrine differentiation is poorly understood, contributing to lack of effective predictive biomarkers and late disease recognition. The purpose of this study was to examine the role of novel proneural Pit-Oct-Unc-domain transcription factors (TF) in NEPC and examine their potential as noninvasive predictive biomarkers. Experimental Design: Prostate cancer patient-derived xenograft models, clinical samples, and cellular neuroendocrine differentiation models were employed to determine the expression of TFs BRN1 and BRN4. BRN4 levels were modulated in prostate cancer cell lines followed by functional assays. Furthermore, extracellular vesicles (EV) were isolated from patient samples and cell culture models, characterized by nanoparticle tracking analyses, Western blotting, and realtime PCR. Results: We identify for the first time that: (i) BRN4 is amplified and overexpressed in NEPC clinical samples and that BRN4 overexpression drives neuroendocrine differentiation via its interplay with BRN2, a TF that was previously implicated in NEPC; (ii) BRN4 and BRN2 mRNA are actively released in prostate cancer EVs upon neuroendocrine differentiation induction; and (iii) enzalutamide treatment augments release of BRN4 and BRN2 in prostate cancer EVs, promoting neuroendocrine differentiation induction. Conclusions: Our study identifies a novel TF that drives NEPC and suggests that as adaptive mechanism to enzalutamide treatment, prostate cancer cells express and secrete BRN4 and BRN2 in EVs that drive oncogenic reprogramming of prostate cancer cells to NEPC. Importantly, EV-associated BRN4 and BRN2 are potential novel noninvasive biomarkers to predict neuroendocrine differentiation in CRPC.
Identification of a Novel Deep Intronic Variant by Whole Genome Sequencing Combined With RNA Sequencing in a Chinese Patient With Menkes Disease. Background: Menkes disease (MD) is a rare X-linked connective tissue disorder of copper metabolism caused by pathogenic variant(s) in ATP7A gene. The aim of the present study is to determine the clinical characteristics and molecular basis of one patient with MD. Methods: One 10-month-old Chinese boy who met the clinical manifestations of MD was enrolled in this study. Whole genome sequencing (WGS) was performed in the patient in order to identify the variant(s), followed by Sanger sequencing. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) from whole blood was subsequently applied to assess the effect of variant on transcription levels, and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was performed for further validation. In addition, X chromosome inactivation (XCI) status of the patient’s mother at the DNA level was measured by capillary electrophoresis. Results: The patient suffered from intermittent convulsions for more than 6 months, with psychomoto retardation and neurodegenerations. The patient also had curly hair, hypopigmented skin, cutis laxa, decreased muscle strength and hypotonia. MRI showed the intracranial arteries were tortuous with some “spiral” changes. The patient’s serum ceruloplasmin level was low. WGS revealed one novel hemizygous variant, c.2627-501C > T (NM_000,052.7), located in the deep intronic sequence of ATP7A gene. Sanger sequencing confirmed that the variant was inherited from his mother. RNA-seq confirmed the variant itself, and identified a pseudo-exon inserted between exons 12 and 13 in mRNA of ATP7A. The sequencing results of RT-PCR from the patient confirmed this finding, while neither of his parents detected aberrant splicing. The Capillary electrophoresis results showed that the patient’s mother had a skewed XCI. Conclusion: Our finding of the variant enlarges the variant spectrum in the ATP7A gene. This is a novel deep intronic variant which leads to the activation of a pseudo-exons in the ATP7A gene, and it demonstrates the usefulness of WGS combined with RNA-seq, in terms of revealing disease-causing variants in non-coding regions. Furthermore, the fact that the deep intronic variants cause disease by the activation of pseudo-exon inclusion indicates that in MD this might be an important mechanism.
Effects of mesenchymal stem cell conditioned media from different sources on intrinsic aging cells. BACKGROUND: With the economic development, people have an increasing pursuit of beauty, and anti-aging research has become a hot research topic. Stem cells have self-renewal and multi-directional differentiation ability, and mesenchymal stem cells are one of them. Studies have shown that mesenchymal stem cells can repair aging cells through paracrine action, but little has been reported on the anti-aging effects of mesenchymal stem cell conditioned media from different sources. OBJECTIVE: To compare the anti-aging effects of human adipose-, amniotic fluid-, placenta-and umbilical cord-derived mesenchymal stem cell conditioned media on aging skin fibroblasts. METHODS: Human adipose, amniotic fluid, placenta and umbilical cord-derived mesenchymal stem cell conditioned media were prepared and used to culture aging skin fibroblasts. Cell viability was detected by cell counting kit-8 and cell senescence rate measured by β-galactosidase staining kit. DCFH-DA probe was used to detect the content of reactive oxygen species. qPCR was used to detect the expression levels of p16, p53, COL1 and KLOTHO genes. RESULTS AND CONCLUSION: (1) Four sources of mesenchymal stem cell conditioned media could increase the cell viability of skin fibroblasts, among which the adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cell conditioned medium had the best effect and the lowest β-galactosidase staining rate. (2) Four sources of mesenchymal stem cell conditioned media could reduce reactive oxygen species content, and adipose-and amniotic fluid-derived mesenchymal stem cell conditioned media had the lowest content of reactive oxygen species. (3) p16 and p53 levels in the placenta and umbilical cord-derived mesenchymal stem cell conditioned media were higher than those in the control group. The expression of p53 in the amniotic fluid-derived mesenchymal stem cell conditioned medium was lower than that in the control group, but there was no difference in the p16 expression between the two groups. Compared with the control group, the expression of p16 was lower and the expression of p53 was higher in the adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cell conditioned medium. (4) Compared with the control group, the expression of COL1 gene was significantly higher in the different culture media except for the amniotic fluid-derived mesenchymal stem cell conditioned medium. Compared with the control group, the expression of KLOTHO was significantly higher in different culture media except for placenta-derived mesenchymal stem cell conditioned medium, and highest in the adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cell conditioned medium. To conclude, mesenchymal stem cell conditioned media from four different sources can delay cell senescence to a certain extent, though its mechanism remains to be further studied.
Nanoparticle-mediated expression of a Wnt pathway inhibitor ameliorates ocular neovascularization. Objective - The deficiency of very low-density lipoprotein receptor resulted in Wnt signaling activation and neovascularization in the retina. The present study sought to determine whether the very low-density lipoprotein receptor extracellular domain (VLN) is responsible for the inhibition of Wnt signaling in ocular tissues. Approach and Results - A plasmid expressing the soluble VLN was encapsulated with poly(lactide-co-glycolide acid) to form VLN nanoparticles (VLN-NP). Nanoparticles containing a plasmid expressing the low-density lipoprotein receptor extracellular domain nanoparticle were used as negative control. MTT, modified Boyden chamber, and Matrigel (™) assays were used to evaluate the inhibitory effect of VLN-NP on Wnt3a-stimulated endothelial cell proliferation, migration, and tube formation. Vldlr-/- mice, oxygen-induced retinopathy, and alkali burn-induced corneal neovascularization models were used to evaluate the effect of VLN-NP on ocular neovascularization. Wnt reporter mice (BAT-gal), Western blotting, and luciferase assay were used to evaluate Wnt pathway activity. Our results showed that VLN-NP specifically inhibited Wnt3a-induced endothelial cell proliferation, migration, and tube formation. Intravitreal injection of VLN-NP inhibited abnormal neovascularization in Vldlr-/-, oxygen-induced retinopathy, and alkali burn-induced corneal neovascularization models, compared with low-density lipoprotein receptor extracellular domain nanoparticle. VLN-NP significantly inhibited the phosphorylation of low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 6, the accumulation of β-catenin, and the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor in vivo and in vitro. Conclusions - Taken together, these results suggest that the soluble VLN is a negative regulator of the Wnt pathway and has antiangiogenic activities. Nanoparticle-mediated expression of VLN may thus represent a novel therapeutic approach to treat pathological ocular angiogenesis and potentially other vascular diseases affected by Wnt signaling.
The Mammalian Hairless Protein as a DNA Binding Phosphoprotein. The mammalian hairless (Hr) protein plays critical roles in skin and brain tissues, but how it interacts with DNA and partner protein is only now being defined. Our initial tests of four consensus response elements, revealed that rat Hr can specifically bind to a consensus p53 response element (p53RE), 5′-AGACATGCCTAGACATGCCT-3′, but not to response elements for NF-κB, TCF4 or Sp1. We then employed ChIP assays which verified that human HR binds to a p53RE of the GADD45A gene in both HEK293 (embryonic kidney) and U87 (glioblastoma) cells. Further, HR was shown to interact directly with the p53 protein in a co-immunoprecipitation assay. Cotransfections with p53RE reporter gene constructs revealed that rat Hr can boost p53-mediated transactivation of a reporter gene linked to the GADD45A p53RE, but blunts p53-mediated transactivation when the reporter gene is linked to a p21 promoter fragment containing a p53RE, with implications for the regulation of these two cell cycle control genes. Finally, our investigations of HR phosphorylation revealed that rat Hr is a substrate for PKC, but not PKA, and that human HR is phosphorylated in intact U87 cells at Ser-416, located in a highly conserved region which partially fulfills the criteria of a PKC site. We propose that mammalian Hr is a phosphoprotein which can exert cross-talk with the p53 pathway with important implications for the regulation of cell proliferation and differentiation in tissues such as skin and brain where Hr is highly expressed.
Insulin's regulation of c-fos gene transcription in hepatoma cells. In H4IIE rat hepatoma cells insulin interacts with its receptors to induce DNA synthesis and promote cell division. However, the postreceptor events that lead to DNA synthesis and cell division have not been well characterized. Previous studies indicate that insulin can regulate the expression of several genes in H4 cells. One of these genes is the proto-oncogene c-fos, a cellular gene whose deregulation has been implicated in the process of cellular differentiation and division. In the present work insulin is shown to regulate cellular c-fos mRNA accumulation and the transcription rate of the c-fos gene. Insulin caused a rapid, dose-dependent increase in the cytoplasmic concentration of c-fos mRNA which was maximal by 30 min. Preceding this, a more rapid 6-8-fold increase in transcription of the c-fos gene was observed. Induction of transcription was apparent following only 5 min of insulin addition. This is the most rapid effect of insulin yet demonstrated on the induction of gene expression. Protein synthesis inhibitors (cycloheximide, anisomycin) also induced the transcription of the c-fos gene. However, they stimulated a much greater increase in transcription than did insulin, and followed a different time course of action. The addition of insulin in combination with a protein synthesis inhibitor resulted in no greater increase in c-fos transcription than did the addition of a protein synthesis inhibitor alone. The nonadditivity of H4 cell c-fos gene expression may indicate a similar mode of action by insulin and protein synthesis inhibitors.
Structural and functional characterization of the human perlecan gene promoter: Transcriptional activation by transforming growth factor-β via a nuclear factor 1-binding element. Perlecan, a modular heparan sulfate proteoglycan of basement membranes and cell surfaces, plays a crucial role in regulating the assembly of extracellular matrices and the binding of nutrients and growth factors to target cells. To achieve a molecular understanding of perlecan gene regulation, we isolated the 5'-flanking region and investigated its functional promoter activity and its response to cytokines. Transient cell transfection assays, using plasmid constructs harboring the perlecan promoter linked to the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter gene, demonstrated that the largest ~2.5-kilobase construct contained maximal promoter activity. This promoter region was functionally active in a variety of cells of diverse histogenetic origin, thus corroborating the widespread expression of this gene product. Stepwise 5' deletion analyses demonstrated that the - 461-base pair (bp) proximal promoter retained ~90% of the total activity, and internal deletions confirmed that the most proximal sequence was essential for proper promoter activity. Nanomolar amounts of transforming growth factor-β induced 2-3-fold perlecan mRNA and protein core levels in normal human skin fibroblasts, and this induction was transcriptionally regulated; in contrast, tumor necrosis factor-α had no effect and was incapable of counteracting the effects of TGF-β. Using additional 5' deletions and DNase foot-printing analyses, we mapped the TGF-β responsive region to a sequence of 177 bp contained between -461 and -285. This region harbored a 14-bp element similar to a TGF-β-responsive element present in the promoters of collagen α1(I), α2(I), elastin, and growth hormone. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays and mutational analyses demonstrated that the perlecan TGF-β-responsive element bound specifically to TGF-β- inducible nuclear proteins with high affinity for NF-1 member(s) of transcription factors.
Signaling pathways initiated in macrophages after engagement of type A scavenger receptors. Scavenger receptors are macrophage cell surface molecules associated with endocytic uptake of lipoproteins and binding of microbial ligands. Macrophage class A scavenger receptors (SR-As) interact with ligands to induce cellular signaling leading to gene transcription and cytokine release. We used inhibitors of early and late signaling to block SR-A-mediated polyinosinic-polycytidilic acid (poly I:C) and lipoteiclioic acid (LTA) activation of RAW 264.7 macrophages. Effects of multiple inhibitors on tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α release were monitored to determine requirements for inflammatory cytokine production. Cycloheximide, monodansylcadaverine, and cytochalasin B all blocked TNF-α release from macrophages stimulated with LTA or poly I:C, whereas monensin only nominally reduced TNF-α production. Selected inhibitors of downstream signaling events reduced SR-A-dependent TNF-α release by >95% after stimulation with either ligand, whereas others were ineffective. The PKC inhibitor H7 reduced LTA-dependent secretion of TNF-α by 94% but inhibited poly I:C-dependent TNF-α production only by 50%. Priming of RAW 264.7 cells with interferon-γ potentiated the response to poly I:C but did not alter inhibitor effects. These results demonstrated that for both ligands tested here, early events of receptor internalization are requisite for cellular activation. The response pattern suggests that tyrosine phosphorylation and activation of the MAP kinase pathway are key components of SR-A-mediated signal transduction cascades.
AIRE recruits P-TEFb for transcriptional elongation of target genes in medullary thymic epithelial cells. AIRE is a transcriptional activator that directs the ectopic expression of many tissue-specific genes in medullary thymic epithelial cells, which plays an important role in the negative selection of autoreactive T cells. However, its mechanism of action remains poorly understood. In this study, we found that AIRE regulates the step of elongation rather than initiation of RNA polymerase II. For these effects, AIRE bound and recruited P-TEFb to target promoters in medullary thymic epithelial cells. In these cells, AIRE activated the ectopic transcription of insulin and salivary protein 1 genes. Indeed, by chromatin immunoprecipitation, we found that RNA polymerase II was already engaged on these promoters but was unable to elongate in the absence of AIRE. Moreover, the genetic inactivation of cyclin T1 from P-TEFb abolished the transcription of AIRE-responsive genes and led to lymphocytic infiltration of lacrimal and salivary glands in the CycT1-/_ mouse. Our findings reveal critical steps by which AIRE regulates the transcription of genes that control central tolerance in the thymus.
Cux2 acts as a critical regulator for neurogenesis in the olfactory epithelium of vertebrates. Signaling pathways and transcription factors are crucial regulators of vertebrate neurogenesis, exerting their function in a spatial and temporal manner. Despite recent advances in our understanding of the molecular regulation of embryonic neurogenesis, little is known regarding how different signaling pathways interact to tightly regulate this process during the development of neuroepithelia. To address this, we have investigated the events lying upstream and downstream of a key neurogenic factor, the Cut-like homeodomain transcription factor-2 (Cux2), during embryonic neurogenesis in chick and mouse. By using the olfactory epithelium as a model for neurogenesis we have analyzed mouse embryos deficient in Cux2, as well as chick embryos exposed to Cux2 silencing (si) RNA or a Cux2 over-expression construct. We provide evidence that enhanced BMP activity increases Cux2 expression and suppresses olfactory neurogenesis in the chick olfactory epithelium. In addition, our results show that up-regulation of Cux2, either BMP-induced or ectopically over-expressed, reduce Delta1 expression and suppress proliferation. Interestingly, the loss of Cux2 activity, using mutant mice or siRNA in chick, also diminishes neurogenesis, Notch activity and cell proliferation in the olfactory epithelium. Our results suggest that controlled low levels of Cux2 activity are necessary for proper Notch signaling, maintenance of the proliferative pool and ongoing neurogenesis in the olfactory epithelium. Thus, we demonstrate a novel conserved mechanism in vertebrates in which levels of Cux2 activity play an important role for ongoing neurogenesis in the olfactory epithelium.
SPHK1 promotes metastasis of thyroid carcinoma through activation of the S1P/S1PR3/Notch signaling pathway. Thyroid carcinoma is characterized by an aggressive behavior, lack of effective targeted therapies and a high rate of relapse. Sphingosine kinase 1 (SPHK1) has been reported to be a critical regulatory factor in the progression of thyroid carcinoma, but the correlation between SPHK1 and clinical prognosis of patients with thyroid carcinoma has remained to be fully elucidated. The present study aimed to systematically assess the roles of SPHK1 in thyroid carcinoma metastasis and further investigate the possible underlying mechanisms. First, the expression of SPHK1 was detected in tissue samples from 53 thyroid carcinoma patients and in thyroid carcinoma cell lines by reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction analysis. Furthermore, the level of phospho-(p)-SPHK1 was immunohistochemically detected in human thyroid carcinoma tissue samples. The activity of SPHK1 was measured with a commercial SPHK1 Activity Assay kit. A sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) competitive ELISA kit was used to determine the extracellular S1P levels. The metastatic potential was assessed by a Transwell assay. In addition, the association between SPHK1 and clinicopathological features of the patients was analyzed. The results indicated that the expression of SPHK1 in thyroid carcinoma samples was significantly higher than in paired adjacent normal thyroid tissues. High levels of SPHK1 were positively correlated with poor overall survival and progression-free survival. Downregulation of SPHK1 by lentiviral vector expressing SPHK1 small interfering (si)RNA evidently repressed Notch signaling and reduced the migration and invasion of thyroid carcinoma cells in vitro and in a NOD/SCID mouse model. Furthermore, inhibition of SPHK1 by siRNA or treatment with SPHK1 inhibitor 5C sensitized thyroid carcinoma to cisplatin and doxorubicin. In addition, it was demonstrated that silencing of SPHK1 effectively inhibits processes associated with thyroid carcinoma metastasis through the Notch signaling pathway, and SPHK1 may therefore represent a potential therapeutic target in thyroid carcinoma. In conclusion, the present study indicated that high levels of p-SPHK1 were positively correlated with high levels of S1P which in turn promoted thyroid carcinoma metastasis via the S1P/S1P receptor 3/Notch signaling pathway, suggesting possible prognostic markers and therapeutic targets.
MTHFR knockdown assists cell defense against folate depletion induced chromosome segregation and uracil misincorporation in DNA. Folate depletion causes chromosomal instability by increasing DNA strand breakage, uracil misincorporation, and defective repair. Folate mediated one-carbon metabolism has been suggested to play a key role in the carcinogenesis and progression of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) through influencing DNA integrity. Methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) is the enzyme catalyzing the irreversible conversion of 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate to 5-methyltetrahydrofolate that can control folate cofactor distributions and modulate the partitioning of intracellular one-carbon moieties. The association between MTHFR polymorphisms and HCC risk is inconsistent and remains controversial in populational studies. We aimed to establish an in vitro cell model of liver origin to elucidate the interactions between MTHFR function, folate status, and chromosome stability. In the present study, we (1) examined MTHFR expression in HCC patients; (2) established cell models of liver origin with stabilized inhibition of MTHFR using small hairpin RNA delivered by a lentiviral vector, and (3) investigated the impacts of reduced MTHFR and folate status on cell cycle, methyl group homeostasis, nucleotide biosynthesis, and DNA stability, all of which are pathways involved in DNA integrity and repair and are critical in human tumorigenesis. By analyzing the TCGA/GTEx datasets available within GEPIA2, we discovered that HCC cancer patients with higher MTHFR had a worse survival rate. The shRNA of MTHFR (shMTHFR) resulted in decreased MTHFR gene expression, MTHFR protein, and enzymatic activity in human hepatoma cell HepG2. shMTHFR tended to decrease intracellular S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) contents but folate depletion similarly decreased SAM in wildtype (WT), negative control (Neg), and shMTHFR cells, indicating that in cells of liver origin, shMTHFR does not exacerbate the methyl group supply in folate depletion. shMTHFR caused cell accumulations in the G2/M, and cell population in the G2/M was inversely correlated with MTHFR gene level (r = −0.81, p < 0.0001), MTHFR protein expression (r = −0.8; p = 0.01), and MTHFR enzyme activity (r = −0.842; p = 0.005). Folate depletion resulted in G2/M cell cycle arrest in WT and Neg but not in shMTHFR cells, indicating that shMTHFR does not exacerbate folate depletion-induced G2/M cell cycle arrest. In addition, shMTHFR promoted the expression and translocation of nuclei thymidine synthetic enzyme complex SHMT1/DHFR/TYMS and assisted folate-dependent de novo nucleotide biosynthesis under folate restriction. Finally, shMTHFR promoted nuclear MLH1/p53 expression under folate deficiency and further reduced micronuclei formation and DNA uracil misincorporation under folate deficiency. In conclusion, shMTHFR in HepG2 induces cell cycle arrest in G2/M that may promote nucleotide supply and assist cell defense against folate depletion-induced chromosome segregation and uracil misincorporation in the DNA. This study provided insight into the significant impact of MTHFR function on chromosome stability of hepatic tissues. Data from the present study may shed light on the potential regulatory mechanism by which MTHFR modulates the risk for hepatic malignancies.
MYC-driven neuroblastomas are addicted to a telomerase-independent function of dyskerin. The RNA-binding protein dyskerin, encoded by the DKC1 gene, functions as a core component of the telomerase holoenzyme as well as ribonuclear protein complexes involved in RNA processing and ribosome biogenesis. The diverse roles of dyskerin across many facets of RNA biology implicate its potential contribution to malignancy. In this study, we examined the expression and function of dyskerin in neuroblastoma. We show that DKC1 mRNA levels were elevated relative to normal cells across a panel of 15 neuroblastoma cell lines, where both N-Myc and c-Myc directly targeted the DKC1 promoter. Upregulation of MYCN was shown to dramatically increase DKC1 expression. In two independent neuroblastoma patient cohorts, high DKC1 expression correlated strongly with poor event-free and overall survival (P < 0.0001), independently of established prognostic factors. RNAi-mediated depletion of dyskerin inhibited neuroblastoma cell proliferation, including cells immortalized via the telomerase-independent ALT mechanism. Furthermore, dyskerin attenuation impaired anchorage-independent proliferation and tumor growth. Overexpression of the telomerase RNA component, hTR, demonstrated that this proliferative impairment was not a consequence of telomerase suppression. Instead, ribosomal stress, evidenced by depletion of small nucleolar RNAs and nuclear dispersal of ribosomal proteins, was the likely cause of the proliferative impairment in dyskerin-depleted cells. Accordingly, dyskerin suppression caused p53-dependent G1 cell-cycle arrest in p53 wild-type cells, and a p53-independent pathway impaired proliferation in cells with p53 dysfunction. Together, our findings highlight dyskerin as a new therapeutic target in neuroblastoma with crucial telomerase-independent functions and broader implications for the spectrum of malignancies driven by MYC family oncogenes.
The BMP/BMPR/Smad pathway directs expression of the erythroid-specific EKLF and GATA1 transcription factors during embryoid body differentiation in serum-free media. Erythroid cell-specific gene regulation during terminal differentiation is controlled by transcriptional regulators, such as EKLF and GATA1, that themselves exhibit tissue-restricted expression patterns. Their early expression, already in evidence within multipotential hematopoietic cell lines, has made it difficult to determine what extracellular effectors and transduction mechanisms might be directing the onset of their own transcription during embryogenesis. To circumvent this problem, we have taken the novel approach of investigating whether the ability of embryonic stem (ES) cells to mimic early developmental patterns of cellular expression during embryoid body (EB) differentiation can address this issue. We first established conditions whereby EBs could form efficiently in the absence of serum. Surprisingly, in addition to mesoderm, these cells expressed hemangioblast and hematopoietic markers. However, they did not express the committed erythroid markers EKLF and GATA1, nor the terminally differentiated β-like globin markers. Using this system, we determined that EB differentiation in BMP4 was necessary and sufficient to recover EKLF and GATA1 expression and could be further stimulated by the inclusion of VEGF, SCF, erythropoietin and thyroid hormone. EBs were competent to respond to BMP4 only until day 4 of differentiation, which coincides with the normal onset of EKLF expression. The direct involvement of the BMP/Smad pathway in this induction process was further verified by showing that erythroid expression of a dominant negative BMP1B receptor or of the inhibitory Smad6 protein prevented induction of EKLF or GATA1 even in the presence of serum. Although Smad1, Smad5 and Smad8 are all expressed in the EBs, BMP4 induction of EKLF and GATA1 transcription is not immediate. These data implicate the BMP/Smad induction system as being a crucial pathway to direct the onset of EKLF and GATA1 expression during hematopoietic differentiation and demonstrate that EB differentiation can be manipulated to study induction of specific genes that are expressed early within a lineage.
Sox17 promotes cell cycle progression and inhibits TGF-β/Smad3 signaling to initiate progenitor cell behavior in the respiratory epithelium. The Sry-related high mobility group box transcription factor Sox17 is required for diverse developmental processes including endoderm formation, vascular development, and fetal hematopoietic stem cell maintenance. Expression of Sox17 in mature respiratory epithelial cells causes proliferation and lineage respecification, suggesting that Sox17 can alter adult lung progenitor cell fate. In this paper, we identify mechanisms by which Sox17 influences lung epithelial progenitor cell behavior and reprograms cell fate in the mature respiratory epithelium. Conditional expression of Sox17 in epithelial cells of the adult mouse lung demonstrated that cell cluster formation and respecification of alveolar progenitor cells toward proximal airway lineages were rapidly reversible processes. Prolonged expression of Sox17 caused the ectopic formation of bronchiolar-like structures with diverse respiratory epithelial cell characteristics in alveolar regions of lung. During initiation of progenitor cell behavior, Sox17 induced proliferation and increased the expression of the progenitor cell marker Sca-1 and genes involved in cell cycle progression. Notably, Sox17 enhanced cyclin D1 expression in vivo and activated cyclin D1 promoter activity in vitro. Sox17 decreased the expression of transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β)-responsive cell cycle inhibitors in the adult mouse lung, including p15, p21, and p57, and inhibited TGF-β1-mediated transcriptional responses in vitro. Further, Sox17 interacted with Smad3 and blocked Smad3 DNA binding and transcriptional activity. Together, these data show that a subset of mature respiratory epithelial cells retains remarkable phenotypic plasticity and that Sox17, a gene required for early endoderm formation, activates the cell cycle and reinitiates multipotent progenitor cell behavior in mature lung cells.
Epigenetic basis for the transcriptional hyporesponsiveness of the human inducible nitric oxide synthase gene in vascular endothelial cells. A marked difference exists in the inducibility of inducible NO synthase (iNOS) between humans and rodents. Although important cis and trans factors in the murine and human iNOS promoters have been characterized using episomal-based approaches, a compelling molecular explanation for why human iNOS is resistant to induction has not been reported. In this study we present evidence that the hyporesponsiveness of the human iNOS promoter is based in part on epigenetic silencing, specifically hypermethylation of CpG dinucleotides and histone H3 lysine 9 methylation. Using bisulfite sequencing, we demonstrated that the iNOS promoter was heavily methylated at CpG dinucleotides in a variety of primary human endothelial cells and vascular smooth muscle cells, all of which are notoriously resistant to iNOS induction. In contrast, in human cell types capable of iNOS induction (e.g., A549 pulmonary adenocarcinoma, DLD-1 colon adenocarcinoma, and primary hepatocytes), the iNOS promoter was relatively hypomethylated. Treatment of human cells, such as DLD-1, with a DNA methyltransferase inhibitor (5-azacytidine) induced global and iNOS promoter DNA hypomethylation. Importantly, 5-azacytidine enhanced the cytokine inducibility of iNOS. Using chromatin immunoprecipitation, we found that the human iNOS promoter was basally enriched with diand trimethylation of 113 lysine 9 in endothelial cells, and this did not change with cytokine addition. This contrasted with the absence of lysine 9 methylation in inducible cell types. Importantly, chromatin immunoprecipitation demonstrated the selective presence of the methyl-CpG-binding transcriptional repressor MeCP2 at the iNOS promoter in endothelial cells. Collectively, our work defines a role for chromatin-based mechanisms in the control of human iNOS gene expression.
RGS12TS-S localizes at nuclear matrix-associated subnuclear structures and represses transcription: Structural requirements for subnuclear targeting and transcriptional repression. RGS12TS-S, an 1,157-amino-acid RGS protein (regulator of G protein signaling), is a nuclear protein that exhibits a unique pattern of subnuclear organization into nuclear foci or dots when expressed endogenously or ectopically. We now report that RGS12TS-S is a nuclear matrix protein and identify structural determinants that target this protein to the nuclear matrix and to discrete subnuclear sites. We also determine the relationship between RGS12TS-S-decorated nuclear dots and known subnuclear domains involved in control of gene expression and provide the first evidence that RGS12TS-S is functionally involved in the regulation of transcription and cell cycle events. A novel nuclear matrix-targeting sequence was identified that is distinct from a second novel motif needed for targeting RGS12TS-S to nuclear dots. RGS12TS-S nuclear dots were distinct from Cajal bodies, SC-35 domains, promyelocytic leukemia protein nuclear bodies, Polycomb group domains, and DNA replication sites. However, RGS12TS-S inhibited S-phase DNA synthesis in various tumor cell lines independently of Rb and p53 proteins, and its prolonged expression promoted formation of multinucleated cells. Expression of RGS12TS-S dramatically reduced bromo-UTP incorporation into sites of transcription. RGS12TS-S, when tethered to a Gal4 DNA binding domain, dramatically inhibited basal transcription from a Gal4-E1b TATA promoter in a histone deacetylase-independent manner. Structural analysis revealed a role for the unique N-terminal domain of RGS12TS-S in its transcriptional repressor and cell cycle-regulating activities and showed that the RGS domain was dispensable for these functions. These results provide novel insights into the structure and function of RGS12TS-S in the nucleus and demonstrate that RGS12TS-S possesses biological activities distinct from those of other members of the RGS protein family.
Homologous recombination preferentially repairs heat-induced DNA double-strand breaks in mammalian cells. Purpose: Heat shock induces DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs), but the precise mechanism of repairing heat-induced damage is unclear. Here, we investigated the DNA repair pathways involved in cell death induced by heat shock. Materials and methods: B02, a specific inhibitor of human RAD51 (homologous recombination; HR), and NU7026, a specific inhibitor of DNA-PK (non-homologous end-joining; NHEJ), were used for survival assays of human cancer cell lines with different p53-gene status. Mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) lacking Lig4 (NHEJ) and/or Rad54 (HR) were used for survival assays and a phosphorylated histone H2AX at Ser139 (γH2AX) assay. MEFs lacking Rad51d (HR) were used for survival assays. SPD8 cells were used to measure HR frequency after heat shock. Results: Human cancer cells were more sensitive to heat shock in the presence of B02 despite their p53-gene status, and the effect of B02 on heat sensitivity was specific to the G 2 phase. Rad54-deficient MEFs were sensitive to heat shock and showed prolonged γH2AX signals following heat shock. Rad51d-deficient MEFs were also sensitive to heat shock. Moreover, heat shock-stimulated cells had increased HR. Conclusions: The HR pathway plays an important role in the survival of mammalian cells against death induced by heat shock via the repair of heat-induced DNA DSBs.
Role of unfolded protein response dysregulation in oxidative injury of retinal pigment epithelial cells. Aims: Age-related macular degeneration (AMD), a major cause of legal blindness in the elderly, is associated with genetic and environmental risk factors, such as cigarette smoking. Recent evidence shows that cigarette smoke (CS) that contains high levels of potent oxidants preferably targets retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) leading to oxidative damage and apoptosis; however, the mechanisms are poorly understood. The present study aimed to investigate the role of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and the unfolded protein response (UPR) in CS-related RPE apoptosis. Results: ER stress and proapoptotic gene C/EBP homologous protein (CHOP) were induced in the RPE/choroid complex from mice exposed to CS for 2 weeks and in human RPE cells treated with hydroquinone, a potent oxidant found at high concentrations in CS. Suppressing ER stress or inhibiting CHOP activation by pharmacological chaperones or genetic approaches attenuated hydroquinone-induced RPE cell apoptosis. In contrast to enhanced CHOP activation, protein level of active X-box binding protein 1 (XBP1), a major regulator of the adaptive UPR, was reduced in hydroquinone-treated cells. Conditional knockout of XBP1 gene in the RPE resulted in caspase-12 activation, increased CHOP expression, and decreased antiapoptotic gene Bcl-2. Furthermore, XBP1-deficient RPE cells are more sensitive to oxidative damage induced by hydroquinone or NaIO3, a CS-unrelated chemical oxidant. Conversely, overexpressing XBP1 protected RPE cells and attenuated oxidative stress-induced RPE apoptosis. Innovation and Conclusion: These findings provide strong evidence suggesting an important role of ER stress and the UPR in CS-related oxidative injury of RPE cells. Thus, the modulation of the UPR signaling may provide a promising target for the treatment of AMD.
Selective inhibition of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 gene expression in human embryonal kidney cells by specific triple helix-forming oligonucleotides. Monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) is a chemokine that is expressed by a variety of tissue cells in response to inflammatory stimuli, such as IL-1β, TNF-α, and IFN-γ. A major function of MCP-1 is the recruitment and activation of monocytes and T lymphocytes. Overexpression of MCP-1 has been implicated in a number of diseases, including glomerulonephritis and rheumatoid arthritis, indicating that the modulation of MCP-1 activity and/or expression is a desired therapeutic strategy. In the present study, our aim was to test whether the MCP-1 expression could be inhibited at the transcriptional level using triple helix-forming oligonucleotides (TFOs). We designed a TFO targeted to the SP-1 binding site in the human MCP-1 gene promoter. Gel mobility shift assays demonstrated that the phosphodiester TFO formed a sequence-specific triplex with its dsDNA target with an EC50 of ~1.9 x 10-7 M. The corresponding phosphorothioated oligonucleotide was also effective in this assay with an 8- fold higher EC50 value. Binding of the TFO to the target DNA prevented the binding of rSP-1 and of nuclear proteins in vitro. The TFO could also partially inhibit endogenous MCP-1 gene expression in cultured human embryonic kidney cells. Treatment of TNF-α-stimulated human embryonic kidney 293 cells with the TFO inhibited the secretion of MCP-1 in a dose-dependent manner (up to 45% at 5 μM oligonucleotide). The inhibition of MCP secretion was caused at the level of gene transcription, because MCP-1 mRNA levels in oligonucleotide-treated cells were also decreased by ~40%.
Wnt signaling regulates mitochondrial physiology and insulin sensitivity. Mitochondria serve a critical role in physiology and disease. The genetic basis of mitochondrial regulation in mammalian cells has not yet been detailed. We performed a large-scale RNAi screen to systematically identify genes that affect mitochondrial abundance and function. This screen revealed previously unrecognized roles for >150 proteins in mitochondrial regulation. We report that increased Wnt signals are a potent activator of mitochondrial biogenesis and reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation, leading to DNA damage and acceleration of cellular senescence in primary cells. The signaling protein insulin receptor substrate-1 (IRS-1), shown here to be a transcriptional target of Wnt, is induced in this setting. The increased level of IRS-1 drives activation of mitochondrial biogenesis; furthermore, in insulin-responsive cell types, it enhances insulin signaling, raising the possibility that Wnt proteins may be used to modulate glucose homeostasis. Our results identify a key component of the mitochondrial regulatory apparatus with a potentially important link to metabolic and degenerative disorders.
MicroRNA 184 regulates expression of NFAT1 in umbilical cord blood CD4 + T cells. The reduced expression of nuclear factor of activated T cells-1 (NFAT1) protein in umbilical cord blood (UCB)-derived CD4+ T cells and the corresponding reduction in inflammatory cytokine secretion after stimulation in part underlies their phenotypic differences from adult blood (AB) CD4 + T cells. This muted response may contribute to the lower incidence and severity of high-grade acute graft-versushost disease (aGVHD) exhibited by UCB grafts. Here we provide evidence that a specific microRNA, miR-184, inhibits NFAT1 protein expression elicited by UCB CD4+ T cells. Endogenous expression of miR-184 inUCBis 58.4-fold higher compared withAB CD4+ T cells, and miR-184 blocks production of NFAT1 protein through its complementary target sequence on the NFATc2 mRNA without transcript degradation. Furthermore, its negative effects on NFAT1 protein and downstream interleukin-2 (IL-2) transcription are reversed through antisense blocking in UCB and can be replicated via exogenous transfection of precursor miR-184 into AB CD4 + T cells. Our findings reveal a previously uncharacterized role for miR-184 in UCB CD4+ T cells and a novel function for microRNA in the early adaptive immune response.
Reactivation of SYK expression by inhibition of DNA methylation suppresses breast cancer cell invasiveness. The gene product of spleen tyrosine kinase (SYK) has been implicated in the suppression of breast cancer invasion. We previously reported that SYK expression is lost in a subset of breast cancer; primarily by methylation-mediated gene silencing. In our study, we explored the possibility of using a DNA methyltransferase inhibitor, 5-aza-2′-deoxycytidine (AZA), to suppress breast cancer cell invasion by restoring SYK expression. We found that AZA treatment reestablished the expression of SYK(L) that was accompanied by suppression of the invasion capacity of SYK-negative cells. This invasion inhibition was not due to global cellular toxicity since this treatment did not affect overall cell proliferation. This decreased invasiveness by AZA treatment was diminished by piceatannol, a SYK inhibitor, suggesting that SYK play a significant role in AZA-inducible invasion suppression. SYK promoter hypermethylation was found infrequent in pathologically normal mammary tissues or benign lesions (<5%). In contrast, SYK methylation was frequently identified in ductal carcinoma in situ (∼45%) and invasive ductal carcinoma (47% in node-negative and 40% in node-positive cases), indicating that the hypermethylation of SYK occurs at a stage prior to the development of invasion phenotypes. All these results suggested a potential use of SYK methylation as a valuable biomarker to detect early cancerous lesions and support the use of AZA as a new reagent to the management of advanced breast cancer.
A murine model of Denys-Drash syndrome reveals novel transcriptional targets of WT1 in podocytes. The Wilms tumor-suppressor gene WT1, a key player in renal development, also has a crucial role in maintenance of the glomerulus in the mature kidney. However, molecular pathways orchestrated by WT1 in podocytes, where it is highly expressed, remain unknown. Their defects are thought to modify the cross-talk between podocytes and other glomerular cells and ultimately lead to glomerular sclerosis, as observed in diffuse mesangial sclerosis (DMS) a nephropathy associated with WT1 mutations. To identify podocyte WT1 targets, we generated a novel DMS mouse line, performed gene expression profiling in isolated glomeruli and identified excellent candidates that may modify podocyte differentiation and growth factor signaling in glomeruli. Scel, encoding sciellin, a protein of the cornified envelope in the skin, and Sulf1, encoding a 6-O endosulfatase, are shown to be expressed in wild-type podocytes and to be strongly down-regulated in mutants. Co-expression of Wt1, Scel and Sulf1 was also found in a mesonephric cell line, and siRNA-mediated knock-down of WT1 decreased Scel and Sulf1 mRNAs and proteins. By ChIP we show that Scel and Sulf1 are direct WT1 targets. Cyp26a1, encoding an enzyme involved in the degradation of retinoic acid, is shown to be up-regulated in mutant podocytes. Cyp26a1 may play a role in the development of glomerular lesions but does not seem to be regulated by WT1. These results provide novel clues in our understanding of normal glomerular function and early events involved in glomerulosclerosis.
Sonic Hedgehog Signaling Affected by Promoter Hypermethylation Induces Aberrant Gli2 Expression in Spina Bifida. GLI2 is a key mediator of the sonic hedgehog (Shh) signaling pathway and plays an important role in neural tube development during vertebrate embryogenesis; however, the role of gli2 in human folate-related neural tube defects remains unclear. In this study, we compared methylation status and polymorphisms of gli2 between spina bifida patients and a control group to explore the underlying mechanisms related to folate deficiency in spina bifida. No single nucleotide polymorphism was found to be significantly different between the two groups, although gli2 methylation levels were significantly increased in spina bifida samples, accompanied by aberrant GLI2 expression. Moreover, a prominent negative correlation was found between the folate level in brain tissue and the gli2 methylation status (r = −0.41, P = 0.014), and gli2 hypermethylation increased the risk of spina bifida with an odds ratio of 12.45 (95 % confidence interval: 2.71–57.22, P = 0.001). In addition, we established a cell model to illustrate the effect of gli2 expression and the accessibility of chromatin affected by methylation. High gli2 and gli1 mRNA expression was detected in 5-Aza-treated cells, while gli2 hypermethylation resulted in chromatin inaccessibility and a reduced association with nuclear proteins containing transcriptional factors. More meaningful to the pathway, the effect gene of the Shh pathway, gli1, was found to have a reduced level of expression along with a decreased expression of gli2 in our cell model. Aberrant high methylation resulted in the low expression of gli2 in spina bifida, which was affected by the change in chromatin status and the capacity of transcription factor binding.
Long non-coding RNAs as epigenetic regulators in cancer. Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) constitute large portions of the mammalian transcriptome which appeared as a fundamental player, regulating various cellular mechanisms. LncRNAs do not encode proteins, have mRNA-like transcripts and frequently processed similar to the mRNAs. Many investigations have determined that lncRNAs interact with DNA, RNA molecules or proteins and play a significant regulatory function in several biological processes, such as genomic imprinting, epigenetic regulation, cell cycle regulation, apoptosis, and differentiation. LncRNAs can modulate gene expression on three levels: chromatin remodeling, transcription, and post-transcriptional processing. The majority of the identified lncRNAs seem to be transcribed by the RNA polymerase II. Recent evidence has illustrated that dysregulation of lncRNAs can lead to many human diseases, in particular, cancer. The aberrant expression of lncRNAs in malignancies contributes to the dysregulation of proliferation and differentiation process. Consequently, lncRNAs can be useful to the diagnosis, treatment, and prognosis, and have been characterized as potential cancer markers as well. In this review, we highlighted the role and molecular mechanisms of lncRNAs and their correlation with some of the cancers.
Cooperation of Gata3, c-Myc and Notch in malignant transformation of double positive thymocytes. Gata transcription factors are critical regulators of proliferation and differentiation implicated in various human cancers, but specific genes activated by Gata proteins remain to be identified. We previously reported that enforced expression of Gata3 during T cell development in CD2-Gata3 transgenic mice induced CD4+CD8+ double-positive (DP) T cell lymphoma. Here, we show that the presence of the DO11.10 T-cell receptor transgene, which directs DP cells towards the CD4 lineage, resulted in enhanced lymphoma development and a dramatic increase in thymocyte cell size in CD2-Gata3 transgenic mice. CD2-Gata3 DP cells expressed high levels of the proto-oncogene c-Myc but the Notch1 signaling pathway, which is known to induce c-Myc, was not activated. Gene expression profiling showed that in CD2-Gata3 lymphoma cells transcription of c-Myc and its target genes was further increased. A substantial fraction of CD2-Gata3 lymphomas had trisomy of chromosome 15, leading to an increased c-Myc gene dose. Interestingly, most lymphomas showed high expression of the Notch targets Deltex1 and Hes1, often due to activating Notch1 PEST domain mutations. Therefore, we conclude that enforced Gata3 expression converts DP thymocytes into a pre-malignant state, characterized by high c-Myc expression, whereby subsequent induction of Notch1 signaling cooperates to establish malignant transformation. The finding that Gata3 regulates c-Myc expression levels, in a direct or indirect fashion, may explain the parallel phenotypes of mice with overexpression or deficiency of either of the two transcription factors.
ERK5 regulates basic fibroblast growth factor-induced type 1 plasminogen activator inhibitor expression and cell proliferation in lung fibroblasts. Aims: bFGF is a potent mitogen of cells associated with fibrosis. Although ERK5 has been reported to play roles in the development of fibrosis, its roles in regulating bFGF-induced fibrotic responses are not understood, especially in lung fibroblasts. The authors investigated the role of ERK5 in bFGF induction of cell proliferation and in induction of PAI-1, a critical regulator of the pathological features of fibrosis, in lung fibroblasts. Main methods: The role played by ERK5 in bFGF-induced PAI-1 expression was elucidated by perturbing the ERK5 signaling pathway using a specific chemical inhibitor and siRNA of ERK5. The effects of ERK5 signal perturbation on PAI-1 expression were measured at multiple levels by Q-PCR, immunoblotting, ELISA, and reporter gene analysis. The role of MEF2 in bFGF-induced activation of PAI-1 promoter activity via ERK5 was measured using a biotin-labeled DNA pull-down assay, and the effects of ERK5 on the mitogenic effects of bFGF were assessed using a MTT assay. Key findings: In both primary human lung fibroblast and lung fibroblast cell lines, inhibition of ERK5 blocked bFGF-induced PAI-1 expression at both mRNA and protein levels and inhibited bFGF-induced PAI-1 promoter activity induction by bFGF. Upon stimulation with bFGF, MEF2 directly bound to the consensus sequence of the MEF2 binding site in the PAI-1 promoter. In addition, bFGF-induced PAI-1 up-regulation was inhibited by MEF2 siRNA, and bFGF-induced fibroblast proliferation was blocked by inhibiting ERK5. Significance: This study reveals a novel role for the ERK5-MEF2 cascade, linking bFGF-induced PAI-1 expression and subsequent mitogenic processes in lung fibroblasts.
LncRNA MALAT1 knockdown alleviates myocardial apoptosis in rats with myocardial ischemia-reperfusion through activating PI3K/AKT signaling pathway. OBJECTIVE: To observe the effect of long non-coding ribonucleic acid metastasis-associated lung adenocarcinoma transcript 1 (lncRNA MALAT1) on the myocardial ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury in rats and to explore its potential mechanism, to provide certain references for clinical prevention and treatment of myocardial I/R injury. MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 60 male Wistar rats were randomly divided into the Control group (n=20), I/R group (n=20) and I/R + MALAT1 small-interfering RNA (siRNA) group (n=20) using a random number table. The I/R model was established through recanalization after ligation of left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD), and the MALAT1 knockdown model was established via tail intravenous injection of MALAT1 siRNA in the I/R + MALAT1 siRNA group. The ejection fraction (EF%) and fractional shortening (FS%) of rats in each group were detected via echocardiography and the infarction area in each group was detected using 2,3,5-triphenyl tetrazolium chloride (TTC) assay. Moreover, the morphological changes in myocardial cells in each group were detected via hematoxylin-eosin (H&E) staining, and the myocardial apoptosis level was detected via terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) staining. At the same time, the expression levels of the anti-apoptotic protein B-cell lymphoma-2 (Bcl-2) and pro-apoptotic protein Bcl-2 associated X protein (Bax) in myocardial tissues in each group were determined via Western blotting. Finally, the effect of MALAT1 knockdown on the phosphatidylinositol 3-hydroxy kinase/protein kinase B (PI3K/ AKT) protein expression was detected via Western blotting. RESULTS: The expression level of lncRNA MALAT1 in myocardial tissues was significantly higher in the I/R group than that in the Control group (p<0.05). The MALAT1 knockdown could significantly improve the cardiac insufficiency caused by I/R injury, and increase both EF% and FS% in rats (p<0.05). In addition, the MALAT1 knockdown could markedly inhibit myocardial infarction caused by I/R injury and reduce the infarction area from (62.12 ± 1.29) to (27.66 ± 3.58; p<0.05). The results of the H&E staining showed that the myofilaments were arranged more orderly, the degrees of degradation and necrosis were lower and the cellular edema was significantly alleviated in the I/R + MALAT1 siRNA group compared with those in the I/R group. According to the results of TUNEL staining, the rats in I/R + MALAT1 siRNA group had a markedly lower level of myocardial apoptosis than the I/R group (p<0.05), and the Bax/Bcl-2 ratio also remarkably declined in the I/R + MALAT1 siRNA group (p<0.05). Furthermore, the results of Western blotting revealed that MALAT1 siRNA could significantly reverse the I/R injury-induced inhibition on the AKT phosphorylation (p<0.05). CONCLUSIONS: The MALAT1 knockdown can markedly improve the I/R-induced myocardial injury and promote the cardiac function of rats, whose mechanism may be related to the activation of the AKT signaling pathway by MALAT1 siRNA. Therefore, lncRNA MALAT1 is expected to be a new therapeutic target for myocardial I/R injury.
Neuroprotective Mitochondrial Remodeling by AKAP121/PKA Protects HT22 Cell from Glutamate-Induced Oxidative Stress. Protein kinase A (PKA) is a ser/thr kinase that is critical for maintaining essential neuronal functions including mitochondrial homeostasis, bioenergetics, neuronal development, and neurotransmission. The endogenous pool of PKA is targeted to the mitochondrion by forming a complex with the mitochondrial scaffold A-kinase anchoring protein 121 (AKAP121). Enhanced PKA signaling via AKAP121 leads to PKA-mediated phosphorylation of the fission modulator Drp1, leading to enhanced mitochondrial networks and thereby blocking apoptosis against different toxic insults. In this study, we show for the first time that AKAP121/PKA confers neuroprotection in an in vitro model of oxidative stress induced by exposure to excess glutamate. Unexpectedly, treating mouse hippocampal progenitor neuronal HT22 cells with an acute dose or chronic exposure of glutamate robustly elevates PKA signaling, a beneficial compensatory response that is phenocopied in HT22 cells conditioned to thrive in the presence of excess glutamate but not in parental HT22 cells. Secondly, redirecting the endogenous pool of PKA by transiently transfecting AKAP121 or transfecting a constitutively active mutant of PKA targeted to the mitochondrion (OMM-PKA) or of an isoform of AKAP121 that lacks the KH and Tudor domains (S-AKAP84) are sufficient to significantly block cell death induced by glutamate toxicity but not in an oxygen deprivation/reperfusion model. Conversely, transient transfection of HT22 neuronal cells with a PKA-binding-deficient mutant of AKAP121 is unable to protect against oxidative stress induced by glutamate toxicity suggesting that the catalytic activity of PKA is required for AKAP121’s protective effects. Mechanistically, AKAP121 promotes neuroprotection by enhancing PKA-mediated phosphorylation of Drp1 to increase mitochondrial fusion, elevates ATP levels, and elicits an increase in the levels of antioxidants GSH and superoxide dismutase 2 leading to a reduction in the level of mitochondrial superoxide. Overall, our data supports AKAP121/PKA as a new molecular target that confers neuroprotection against glutamate toxicity by phosphorylating Drp1, to stabilize mitochondrial networks and mitochondrial function and to elicit antioxidant responses.
Sequence-specific binding of recombinant Zbed4 to DNA: Insights into Zbed4 participation in gene transcription and its association with other proteins. Zbed4, a member of the BED subclass of Zinc-finger proteins, is expressed in cone photoreceptors and glial Müller cells of human retina whereas it is only present in Müller cells of mouse retina. To characterize structural and functional properties of Zbed4, enough amounts of purified protein were needed. Thus, recombinant Zbed4 was expressed in E. coli and its refolding conditions optimized for the production of homogenous and functionally active protein. Zbed4's secondary structure, determined by circular dichroism spectroscopy, showed that this protein contains 32% α-helices, 18% β-sheets, 20% turns and 30% unordered structures. CASTing was used to identify the target sites of Zbed4 in DNA. The majority of the DNA fragments obtained contained poly-Gs and some of them had, in addition, the core signature of GC boxes; a few clones had only GC-boxes. With electrophoretic mobility shift assays we demonstrated that Zbed4 binds both not only to DNA and but also to RNA oligonucleotides with very high affinity, interacting with poly-G tracts that have a minimum of 5 Gs; its binding to and GC-box consensus sequences. However, the latter binding depends on the GC-box flanking nucleotides. We also found that Zbed4 interacts in Y79 retinoblastoma cells with nuclear and cytoplasmic proteins Scaffold Attachment Factor B1 (SAFB1), estrogen receptor alpha (ERα), and cellular myosin 9 (MYH9), as shown with immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometry studies as well as gel overlay assays. In addition, immunostaining corroborated the co-localization of Zbed4 with these proteins. Most importantly, in vitro experiments using constructs containing promoters of genes directing expression of the luciferase gene, showed that Zbed4 transactivates the transcription of those promoters with poly-G tracts.
Overexpression of GSTP1 promotes colorectal cancer cell proliferation, invasion and metastasis by upregulating STAT3. Background. The abnormal expression of glutathione S-transferase P1 (GSTP1) is associated with the progression of several tumor types. However, its role and molecular mechanism in the progression of colorectal cancer (CRC) are largely unknown. Objectives. To examine the effect of GSTP1 in CRC and determine its possible mechanisms. Materials and methods. In the present study, immunohistochemistry (IHC) and the quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) analysis were used to detect the expression of GSTP1 and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) in CRC tissues. Western blotting was applied to detect the expression of GSTP1 and proteins of the Janus kinase (JAK)-STAT3 pathway in different CRC cell lines. The interaction and co-localization of GSTP1 and STAT3 were detected using co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP) and immunofluorescence (IF) in the SW620 cell line. Results. A positive correlation was identified between the expression of GSTP1 and STAT3 in human CRC tissues. The overexpression of GSTP1 promoted the proliferation, invasion and metastasis of CRC cells by upregulating STAT3. The GSTP1and STAT3can directly bind to and regulate each other. The interaction between them is regulated by the upstream gene called F-box only protein 8 (FBX8). Conclusions. The present study demonstrated that GSTP1 could enhance the expression of STAT3 to promote the proliferation, invasion and metastasis of CRC cells, which provides a potential therapeutic target for the clinical treatment of CRC.
Signaling lymphocytic activation molecule (SLAM)/SLAM-associated protein pathway regulates human B-cell tolerance. Background Signaling lymphocytic activation molecule (SLAM)-associated protein (SAP) can mediate the function of SLAM molecules, which have been proposed to be involved in the development of autoimmunity in mice. Objective We sought to determine whether the SLAM/SAP pathway regulates the establishment of human B-cell tolerance and what mechanisms of B-cell tolerance could be affected by SAP deficiency. Methods We tested the reactivity of antibodies isolated from single B cells from SAP-deficient patients with X-linked lymphoproliferative disease (XLP). The expressions of SAP and SLAM family members were assessed in human bone marrow-developing B cells. We also analyzed regulatory T (Treg) cell function in patients with XLP and healthy control subjects. Results We found that new emigrant/transitional B cells from patients with XLP were enriched in autoreactive clones, revealing a defective central B-cell tolerance checkpoint in the absence of functional SAP. In agreement with a B cell-intrinsic regulation of central tolerance, we identified SAP expression in a discrete subset of bone marrow immature B cells. SAP colocalized with SLAMF6 only in association with clustered B-cell receptors likely recognizing self-antigens, suggesting that SLAM/SAP regulate B-cell receptor-mediated central tolerance. In addition, patients with XLP displayed defective peripheral B-cell tolerance, which is normally controlled by Treg cells. Treg cells in patients with XLP seem functional, but SAP-deficient T cells were resistant to Treg cell-mediated suppression. Indeed, SAP-deficient T cells were hyperresponsive to T-cell receptor stimulation, which resulted in increased secretion of IL-2, IFN-γ, and TNF-α. Conclusions SAP expression is required for the counterselection of developing autoreactive B cells and prevents their T cell-dependent accumulation in the periphery.
CYP2E1-dependent toxicity and oxidative stress in HepG2 cells. Induction of CYP2E1 by ethanol is one of the central pathways by which ethanol generates a state of oxidative stress in hepatocytes. To study the biochemical and toxicological actions of CYP2E1, our laboratory established HepG2 cell lines which constitutively overexpress CYP2E1 and characterized these cells with respect to ethanol toxicity. Addition of ethanol or an unsaturated fatty acid such as arachidonic acid or iron was toxic to the CYP2E1-expressing cells but not control cells. This toxicity was associated with elevated lipid peroxidation and could be prevented by antioxidants and inhibitors of CYP2E1. Apoptosis occurred in the CYP2E1-expressing cells exposed to ethanol, arachidonic acid, or iron. Removal of GSH caused a loss of viability in the CYP2E1-expressing cells even in the absence of added toxin or pro-oxidant. This was associated with mitochondrial damage and decreased mitochondrial membrane potential. Surprisingly, CYP2E1-expressing cells had elevated GSH levels, due to transcriptional activation of gamma glutamyl cysteine synthetase. Similarly, levels of catalase, alpha-, and microsomal glutathione transferase were also increased, suggesting that upregulation of these antioxidant genes may reflect an adaptive mechanism to remove CYP2E1-derived oxidants. While it is likely that several mechanisms contribute to alcohol-induced liver injury, the linkage between CYP2E1-dependent oxidative stress, mitochondrial injury, and GSH homeostasis may contribute to the toxic action of ethanol on the liver. HepG2 cell lines overexpressing CYP2E1 may be a valuable model to characterize the biochemical and toxicological properties of CYP2E1.
Autoimmune regulator (Aire) controls the expression of microRNAs in medullary thymic epithelial cells. The autoimmune regulator (Aire) is a transcription factor that controls the ectopic expression of a large set of peripheral tissue antigen (PTA) genes in medullary thymic epithelial cells (mTECs). Recent evidence has demonstrated that Aire releases stalled RNA polymerase II (RNA Pol II) from blockage at the promoter region of its target genes. Given that, in addition to messenger RNAs (mRNA), RNA Pol II also transcribes microRNAs (miRNAs), we raised the hypothesis that Aire might play a role as an upstream controller of miRNA transcription. To test this, we initially analyzed the expression profiles of 662 miRNAs in control and Aire-silenced (siRNA) murine mTEC 3.10 cells using microarrays. The bioinformatics programs SAM and Cluster-TreeView were then used to identify the differentially expressed miRNAs and their profiles, respectively. Thirty Aire-dependent miRNAs were identified in the Aire-silenced mTECs, of which 18 were up- and 12 were down-regulated. The down-regulated miR-376 family was the focus of this study because its members (miR-376a, miR-376b and miR-376c) are located in the genome within the Gm2922 open-reading frame (ORF) gene segment on the chromosome 12F1. The T-boxes (TTATTA) and G-boxes (GATTGG), which represent putative RNA Pol II promoter motifs, were located in a portion spanning 10. kb upstream of the ATG codon of Gm2922. Moreover, we found that Gm2922 encodes an mRNA, which was also down-regulated in Aire-silenced mTECs. These results represent the first evidence that Aire can play a role as a controller of transcription of miRNAs located within genomic regions encompassing ORF and/or mRNA genes.
Identification and epigenetic analysis of divergent long non-coding RNAs in multilineage differentiation of human Neural Progenitor Cells. Long non-coding RNAs have emerged as an important regulatory layer in biological systems. Of the various types of lncRNAs, one class (designated as divergent RNAs/XH), which is in head-to-head overlap with the coding genes, has emerged as a critical biotype that regulates development and cellular differentiation. This work aimed to analyze previously published data on differential expression, epigenetic and network analysis in order to demonstrate the association of divergent lncRNAs, a specific biotype with the differentiation of human neural progenitor cells (hNPCs). We have analyzed various available RNAseq databases that address the neuronal and astrocytic differentiation of hNPCs and identified differentially expressed lncRNAs (DELs) during cell-fate determination. Key DELs identified from the databases were experimentally verified by us in our in-vitro hNPC differentiation system. We also analyzed the change in promoter activity using ChIP-seq datasets of the histone markers H3K4me3 (activation) and H3K27me3 (inactivation) of these DELs. Additionally, we explored the change in the euchromatinization state of DELs (by analyzing DNase-seq data) during lineage-specific differentiation of hNPCs and performed their network analysis. We were able to identify differences between neuronal and astrocytic differentiation of hNPCs at the level of divergent DELs epigenetic markers, DNAase hypersensitive sites and gene expression network. Divergent lncRNAs are more involved in neuronal rather than astrocytic differentiation, while the sense downstream lncRNA biotype appears to be more involved in astrocytic differentiation. By studying the lncRNA involvement of distinct biotypes, we have been able to indicate the preferential role of a particular biotype during lineage-specific differentiation.
Transcriptional Regulation In Eukaryotic Cells. This chapter provides the theories of transcriptional regulation in eukaryotic cells. Current ideas about the mechanisms involved in differentiation have been very much influenced by the studies on the regulation of protein synthesis both in prokaryotes and eukaryotes. It is now clearly recognized that in mammalian cells the same basic rules as in bacteria that probably apply in the genetic information for protein synthesis is included in DNA; this is transcribed to messenger RNA, and this in turn is translated into protein by a machinery involving ribosomes, activating enzymes, transfer RNA, and other factors. In eukaryotic cells there may be additional mechanisms not identified in prokaryotes. The chromosomes are much more complex and are segregated from the cytoplasm in the cell nucleus. The evidence that transcriptional controls play an important role in differentiation comes mainly from the studies using the technique of RNA/ DNA hybridization. Labeled RNA is hybridized rapidly from a variety of mouse tissues to DNA in competition with the samples of unlabeled RNA from the same tissues. These studies indicated the differences in RNA populations from one tissue to another.
A novel Myc target gene, mina53, that is involved in cell proliferation. Myc is a ubiquitous mediator of cell proliferation and can transactivate the expression of various genes through E-box sites. Here we report a novel gene, mina53 (Myc-induced nuclear antigen with a molecular mass of 53 kDa). The mina53 gene encodes a protein with a molecular weight of 53 kDa, which is localized in the nucleus and with part of the protein concentrated in the nucleolus. When serum-starved cells were activated by serum, the level of c-myc mRNA was elevated, and an increase in mina53 mRNA followed the elevation of c-myc mRNA. When expression of c-myc was reduced in human promyelocytic leukemia HL60 cells by phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate, the expression of mina53 mRNA and protein was reduced. The expression of mina53 mRNA and Mina53 protein was induced by ectopic introduction of wild type c-Myc but not by a mutant c-Myc lacking the transactivation domain. When c-Myc in the c-MycER chimeric protein was activated, mina53 mRNA was increased, even in the presence of an inhibitor for protein synthesis. E-box sites are present in a region proximal to the transcription initiation sites of the mina53 gene. The gene expression from the mina53 promoter was elevated by c-Myc through E-box sites, c-Myc protein bound to the mina53 promoter region in vivo in HL60 cells in the proliferating phase but not after treatment of cells with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate. Specific inhibition of mina53 expression by an RNA interference method severely suppressed cell proliferation. Taken together, these results indicate that mina53 is a direct target gene of Myc, suggesting that mina53 is involved in mammalian cell proliferation.
Microarray analysis of LIF/Stat3 transcriptional targets in embryonic stem cells. Mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells can be propagated in vitro while retaining their properties of pluripotency and self-renewal under the continuous presence of leukemia inhibitor factor (LIF). An essential role has been attributed to subsequent activation of the Stat3 transcription factor in mediating LIF self-renewal response. To date, however, downstream target genes of Stat3 in ES cells are still unknown. To isolate these genes, we performed a microarray-based kinetic comparison of LIF-stimulated (undifferentiated) ES cells versus ES cells induced to differentiate by shutting down Stat3 activity through either LIF deprivation or, more specifically, expression of a Stat3 dominant-negative mutant. In each case, we chose the earliest time at which ES cells lose their self-renewal properties, as illustrated by a decrease in the number of embryoid bodies and blast cell colony formation as well as germ layer marker expression. Comparison of the two independent approaches revealed similarly regulated genes that are likely to be involved in the Stat3 effects on ES cell self-renewal. For instance, upregulation of growth factors such as the transforming growth factor-β relative Leftyl or transcriptional regulators such as Id1 and Id2 and down-regulation of the groucho-like protein Aes1 (grg5) were found. Promoter analysis of the aes1 gene revealed three functional Stat3 consensus sites, as shown by luciferase assays. Furthermore, chromatin immunoprecipitation experiment demonstrated that Stat3 is recruited to the promoter at aes1 in ES cells. These data demonstrated that the aes1 gene is a direct transcriptional target of Stat3 in ES cells.
Cell-specific repressor or enhancer activities of Deaf-1 at a serotonin 1A receptor gene polymorphism. The serotonin-1A (5-HT1A ) receptor is the primary somatodendritic autoreceptor that inhibits the activity of serotonergic raphe neurons and is also expressed in nonserotonergic cortical and limbic neurons. Alterations in 5-HT1A receptor levels are implicated in mood disorders, and a functional C(-1019)G 5-HT1A promoter polymorphism has been associated with depression, suicide, and panic disorder. We examined the cell-specific activity of identified transcription factors, human nuclear deformed epidermal autoregulatory factor-1 (DEAF-1)-related (NUDR)/Deaf-1 and Hes5, at the 5-HT1A C(-1019) site. In serotonergic raphe RN46A cells, Deaf-1 and Hes5 repressed the 5-HT1A receptor gene at the C(-1019)-allele but not the G(-1019)-allele. However, in nonserotonergic cells that express 5-HT1A receptors (septal SN48, neuroblastoma SKN-SH, and neuroblastoma/glioma NG108-15 cells), Deaf-1 enhanced 5-HT1A promoter activity at the C(-1019)-allele but not the G-allele, whereas Hes5 repressed in all cell types. The enhancer activity of Deaf-1 was orientation independent and competed out Hes5 repression. To test whether Deaf-1 activity is intrinsic, the activity of a Gal4DBD (DNA binding domain)-Deaf-1 fusion protein at a heterologous Gal4 DNA element was examined. Gal4DBD-Deaf-1 repressed transcription in RN46A cells but enhanced transcription in SN48 cells, indicating that these opposite activities are intrinsic to Deaf-1. Repressor or enhancer activities of Deaf-1 or Gal4DBD-Deaf-1 were blocked by histone deacetylase inhibitor trichostatin A. Thus, the intrinsic activity of Deaf-1 at the 5-HT1A promoter is opposite in presynaptic versus postsynaptic neuronal cells and requires deacetylation. Cell-specific regulation by Deaf-1 could underlie region-specific alterations in 5-HT1A receptor expression in different mood disorders.
NOTCH1 and NOTCH3 coordinate esophageal squamous differentiation through a csl-dependent transcriptional network. Background & Aims The Notch receptor family regulates cell fate through cell-cell communication. CSL (CBF-1/RBP-jκ, Su(H), Lag-1) drives canonical Notch-mediated gene transcription during cell lineage specification, differentiation, and proliferation in the hematopoietic system, the intestine, the pancreas, and the skin. However, the functional roles of Notch in esophageal squamous epithelial biology are unknown. Methods Normal esophageal keratinocytes were stimulated with calcium chloride to induce terminal differentiation. The squamous epithelia were reconstituted in organotypic 3-dimensional culture, a form of human tissue engineering. Notch was inhibited in culture with a γ-secretase inhibitor or dominant negative mastermind-like 1 (DNMAML1). The roles of Notch receptors were evaluated by in vitro gain-of-function and loss-of-function experiments. Additionally, DNMAML1 was targeted to the mouse esophagus by cytokeratin K14 promoter-driven Cre (K14Cre) recombination of Lox-STOP-Lox-DNMAML1. Notch-regulated gene expression was determined by reporter transfection, chromatin immunoprecipitation assays, quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction, Western blotting, immunofluorescence, and immunohistochemistry. Results NOTCH1 (N1) was activated at the onset of squamous differentiation in the esophagus. Intracellular domain of N1 (ICN1) directly activated NOTCH3 (N3) transcription, inducing HES5 and early differentiation markers such as involucrin (IVL) and cytokeratin CK13 in a CSL-dependent fashion. N3 enhanced ICN1 activity and was required for squamous differentiation. Loss of Notch signaling in K14Cre;DNMAML1 mice perturbed esophageal squamous differentiation and resulted in N3 loss and basal cell hyperplasia. Conclusions Notch signaling is important for esophageal epithelial homeostasis. In particular, the cross talk of N3 with N1 during differentiation provides novel, mechanistic insights into Notch signaling and squamous epithelial biology.
Extracellular Regulated Kinase 1/2 Signaling Is a Critical Regulator of Interleukin-1β-Mediated Astrocyte Tissue Inhibitor of Metalloproteinase-1 Expression. Astrocytes are essential for proper central nervous system (CNS) function and are intricately involved in neuroinflammation. Despite evidence that immune-activated astrocytes contribute to many CNS pathologies, little is known about the inflammatory pathways controlling gene expression. Our laboratory identified altered levels of tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase (TIMP)-1 in brain lysates from human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1 infected patients, compared to age-matched controls, and interleukin (IL)-1β as a key regulator of astrocyte TIMP-1. Additionally, CCAAT enhancer binding protein (C/EBP)β levels are elevated in brain specimens from HIV-1 patients and the transcription factor contributes to astrocyte TIMP-1 expression. In this report we sought to identify key signaling pathways necessary for IL-1β-mediated astrocyte TIMP-1 expression and their interaction with C/EBPβ. Primary human astrocytes were cultured and treated with mitogen activated protein kinase-selective small molecule inhibitors, and IL-1β. TIMP-1 and C/EBPβ mRNA and protein expression were evaluated at 12 and 24 h post-treatment, respectively. TIMP-1 promoter-driven luciferase plasmids were used to evaluate TIMP-1 promoter activity in inhibitor-treated astrocytes. These data show that extracellular regulated kinase (ERK) 1/2-selective inhibitors block IL-1β-induced astrocyte TIMP-1 expression, but did not decrease C/EBPβ expression in parallel. The p38 kinase (p38K) inhibitors partially blocked both IL-1β-induced astrocyte TIMP-1 expression and C/EBPβ expression. The ERK1/2-selective inhibitor abrogated IL-1β-mediated increases in TIMP-1 promoter activity. Our data demonstrate that ERK1/2 activation is critical for IL-1β-mediated astrocyte TIMP-1 expression. ERK1/2-selective inhibition may elicit a compensatory response in the form of enhanced IL-1β-mediated astrocyte C/EBPβ expression, or, alternatively, ERK1/2 signaling may function to moderate IL-1β-mediated astrocyte C/EBPβ expression. Furthermore, p38K activation contributes to IL-1β-induced astrocyte TIMP-1 and C/EBPβ expression. These data suggest that ERK1/2 signals downstream of C/EBPβ to facilitate IL-1β-induced astrocyte TIMP-1 expression. Astrocyte ERK1/2 and p38K signaling may serve as therapeutic targets for manipulating CNS TIMP-1 and C/EBPβ levels, respectively.
The HMG domain protein SSRP1/PREIIBF is involved in activation of the human embryonic β-like globin gene. The human embryonic β-like globin (ε-globin) gene is expressed in primitive erythroid cells of the yolk sac during the first few weeks of development. We have previously shown that developmental stage-specific expression of the ε-globin gene is mediated by multiple positive and negative regulatory elements upstream of the start of transcription. Of particular interest is one positive regulatory element, PRE II, that works together with other elements (PRE I and PRE V) to confer developmental stage- and/or tissue-specific expression on a minimal promoter. An ~85- to 90-kDa PRE II binding factor (PREIIBF) was identified in the nuclei of erythroid cells and shown to bind specifically to a novel 19-bp region within PRE II; binding of this protein to PRE II resulted in bending of the target DNA and was required for promoter activation. In this report, we present the cDNA expression cloning of PREIIBF. The cDNA encodes a previously identified member of the HMG domain family of DNA binding proteins termed SSRP1. By a number of biochemical and immunological criteria, recombinant SSRP1 appears to be identical to the PRE II binding factor from erythroid nuclei. A hallmark of HMG domain proteins is their ability to bend their target DNAs; therefore, as we speculated previously, DNA bending by SSRP1/PREIIBF may contribute to the mechanism by which PRE II synergizes with other regulatory elements located upstream and downstream. In contrast with reports from other investigators, we demonstrate that SSRP1 binds DNA with clear sequence specificity. Moreover, we show that SSRP1/PREIIBF lacks a classical activation domain but that binding by this protein to PRE II is required for activation of a minimal promoter in stable erythroid cell lines. These studies provide the first evidence that SSRP1 plays a role in transcriptional regulation. SSRP1/PREIIBF may serve an architectural function by helping to coordinate the assembly of a multiprotein complex required for stage-specific regulation of the human ε-globin gene.
PRDM1 decreases sensitivity of human NK cells to IL2-induced cell expansion by directly repressing CD25 (IL2RA). IL2 receptor signaling is crucial for human NK cell activation and gain of effector functions. The molecular mechanisms involved in termination of IL2 activation are largely unknown in human NK cells. PR/SET domain 1 was previously reported to decrease cell growth and increase apoptosis in an IL2-dependent manner in malignant NK cell lines, suggesting the possibility of down-regulation of IL2 signaling pathway gene(s) through direct transcriptional repression. Using ChIP-Seq, we identified a PRDM1 binding site on the first intron of CD25 (IL2RA), which codes for the IL2 receptor subunit regulating sensitivity to IL2 signaling, in primary NK cells activated with engineered K562 cells or IL2. Ectopic expression of PRDM1 down-regulated CD25 expression at transcript and protein levels in two PRDM1 nonexpressing NK cell lines. shRNA-mediated knockdown of CD25 in two malignant NK cell lines led to progressive depletion of NK cells in low IL2 concentrations. By contrast, ectopic CD25 expression in primary human NK cells led to progressive increase in cell number in CD25-transduced cells in low IL2 concentrations. Altogether these results reveal a pivotal role of PRDM1 in inhibition of IL2-induced NK cell expansion through direct repression of CD25 in activated human NK cells. These observations provide additional support for the role of PRDM1 in attenuation of NK cell activation and growth, with implications on neoplastic transformation or NK cell function when it is deregulated.
Inhibition of IGF-1R Prevents Ionizing Radiation-Induced Primary Endothelial Cell Senescence. Accelerated senescence is a primary response to cellular stresses including DNA damaging agents (e.g., ionizing radiation) and is widely believed to be caused by continuous proliferative signaling in the presence of cell cycle arrest. Studies of signal transduction pathways leading to accelerated senescence have revealed that inhibition of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) by rapamycin rescues cells from senescence. However, the molecular mechanisms upstream of mTOR following ionizing radiation (IR) are not well defined. We investigated signal transduction leading to IR-induced accelerated senescence in human pulmonary artery endothelial cells (HPAEC). Exposure of HPAEC to X-rays (10 Gy, 2.4 Gy/min) upregulated senescence markers including p53, p21/waf1, and senescence-associated beta galactosidase (SA-β-gal). Ly294002 (a phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase [PI3K] inhibitor) or rapamycin (an mTOR inhibitor) blocked the induction of cellular senescence markers suggesting roles for PI3K and mTOR. Pathway-directed microarrays revealed increased transcription of insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-1), a modulator of cell growth and proliferation upstream of mTOR. qRT-PCR confirmed that both IGF-1 and IGF-2 mRNA were increased in response to X-rays, and ELISA showed increased secretion of IGF-1 protein into the medium of irradiated HPAEC. Consistent with upregulation of these ligands, we found that X-ray exposure led to hyperphosphorylation of IGF-1R, the receptor for IGF-1 and -2. Treatment with AG1024, an IGF-1R inhibitor, suppressed IR-induced upregulation of p53, p21/waf1, and SA-β-gal. Together these findings suggest that IGF-1R is a key regulator of IR-induced accelerated senescence in a pathway that requires intact mTOR activity upstream of both p53 and p21/waf1.
Tumor necrosis factor-α differentially regulates the expression of proinflammatory genes in human airway smooth muscle cells by activation of interferon-β-dependent CD38 pathway. Recent evidence suggests that CD38, an ectoenzyme that converts NAD + to cyclic ADP-ribose (cADPr), may play a role in cytokine-induced airway smooth muscle (ASM) cell hyper-responsiveness, a key feature associated with chronic asthma. In the present study, we investigated the major signaling pathways by which tumor necrosis factor-α (TNFα) induces CD38 expression and its role in regulating gene expression in human ASM cells. Using flow cytometry analyses, TNFα enhanced CD38 expression in a manner that was time-(0-24 h), concentration-(0.1-40 ng/ml), and protein synthesis-(cycloheximide blockade) dependent. A selective agonistic antibody against tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNFR) 1 also augmented CD38 expression, whereas anti-TNFR2 antagonistic antibody did not prevent the TNFα response. Inhibition of the Janus activated kinase/signal transducer and activator of transcription pathways using the soluble inhibitor 2-(1,1-dimethylethyl)-9-fluoro-3,6-dihydro-7H-benz-[h]imidaz[4,5-f] isoquinolin-7-one (DBI) or with neutralizing antibody against interferon β (IFNβ) completely abrogated TNFα-induced CD38 expression at both protein and mRNA levels. Combining TNFα (0.1 and 1 ng/ml) and IFNβ (100 IU/ml) at concentrations alone that had little effect on CD38 expression induced a robust synergistic induction of CD38 mRNA and protein levels. 8-Bromo-cADPr, a cADPr antagonist, significantly augmented TNFα-induced interleukin-6 secretion, whereas regulated on activation normal T cell expressed and secreted secretion was suppressed. 8-Bromo-cADPr, however, did not affect TNFα-induced cell surface expression of intercellular adhesion molecule-1. Our study is the first to demonstrate that IFNβ-dependent activation of CD38 pathway is a novel component by which TNFα differentially regulates the expression of inflammatory genes in ASM cells.
A retrotransposon gag-like-3 gene RTL3 and SOX-9 co-regulate the expression of COL2A1 in chondrocytes. Purpose: Transposable elements are known to remodel gene structure and provide a known source of genetic variation. Retrotransposon gag-like-3 (RTL3) is a mammalian retrotransposon-derived transcript (MART) whose function in the skeletal tissue is unknown. This study aimed to elucidate the biological significance of RTL3 in chondrogenesis and type-II collagen (COL2A1) gene expression in chondrocytes. Materials and Methods: Expression of RTL3, SOX-9 and COL2A1 mRNAs was determined by TaqMan assays and the protein expression by immunoblotting. RTL3 and Sox-9 depletion in human chondrocytes was achieved using validated siRNAs. An RTL3 mutant (∆RTL3) lacking the zinc finger domain was created using in vitro mutagenesis. Forced expression of RTL3, ∆RTL3, and SOX-9 was achieved using CMV promoter containing expression plasmids. CRISPR-Cas9 was utilized to delete Rtl3 and create a stable ATDC5Rlt3-/- cell line. Matrix deposition and Col2a1 quantification during chondrogenesis were determined by Alcian blue staining and Sircol™ Soluble Collagen Assay, respectively. Results: RTL3 is not ubiquitously expressed but showed strong expression in cartilage, chondrocytes and synoviocytes but not in muscle, brain, or other tissues analyzed. Loss-of-function and gain-of-function studies demonstrated a critical role of RTL3 in the regulation of SOX-9 and COL2A1 expression and matrix synthesis during chondrogenesis. Both RTL3 and SOX-9 displayed co-regulated expression in chondrocytes. Gene regulatory activity of RTL3 requires the c-terminal CCHC zinc-finger binding domain. Conclusions: Our results identify a novel regulatory mechanism of COL2A1 expression in chondrocytes that may help to further understand the skeletal development and the pathogenesis of diseases with altered COL2A1 expression.
BLIMP-1 is a target of cellular stress and downstream of the unfolded protein response. B lymphocyte-induced maturation protein-1 (BLIMP-1) acts during differentiation of B cells and monocytes, but was originally identified as a repressor of the IFN-β promoter induced during viral infection. A central regulator of the intracellular response to viral infection is the interferon-inducible double-stranded RNA activated protein kinase (PKR). PKR belongs to a family of kinases that phosphorylate the eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2-alpha (eIF2α) and activate common downstream signaling pathways. PERK, the endoplasmic reticulum resident PKR-homologue, is activated during the unfolded protein response (UPR), a stress response involved in both macrophage activation and terminal B-cell differentiation. This suggested that BLIMP-1 might be a target of stress responses involving PERK. We demonstrate that BLIMP-1 is rapidly up-regulated during the UPR in human myeloid and B-cell lines. This response is conserved in murine B-cells and murine macrophages, in which mimics of physiological stress and classical activation stimuli also induce Blimp-1. During the UPR, BLIMP-1 mRNA is induced at the level of transcription. This response is dependent on an intact PERK signaling pathway, independent of new protein synthesis and blocked by an inhibitor of NF-κB. Our data provide evidence for a novel pathway linking cellular stress to BLIMP- 1, a regulator of differentiation in macrophages and B cells.
Retinoic Acid Facilitates Toll-Like Receptor 4 Expression to Improve Intestinal Barrier Function through Retinoic Acid Receptor Beta. Background/Aims: Vitamin A (VA) protects the intestinal epithelial barrier by improving cell migration and proliferation. Our previous studies demonstrated that VA deficiency (VAD) during pregnancy suppresses the systemic and mucosal immune responses in the intestines of offspring and that VA supplementation (VAS) during early life can increase immune cell counts. However, little is known about the mechanisms by which VA regulates intestinal epithelial barrier function. Methods: Caco-2 cells were treated with all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) for 24 hours to determine the optimum ATRA concentration to which the cells in question respond. Caco-2 cells were infected with recombinant adenoviruses carrying retinoic acid receptor beta (Ad-RARβ) and small interfering RARβ(siRARβ) to assess the effects of RARβ signalling on the expression of specific proteins. A siTLR4 lentivirus was used to knockdown Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) in Caco-2 cells to determine its role in the protective effects of VA on the intestinal epithelial barrier, and experiments involving TLR4-knock-out mice were performed to verify the effect of TLR4. VA normal (VAN), VAD and VAS rat models were established to confirm that changes in RARβ, TLR4 and ZO-2 expression levels that occurred following decreases or increases in retinol concentrations in vivo, and the permeability of the Caco-2 cell monolayer, as well as that of the epithelial barrier of the rat intestine was detected by measuring transepithelial resistance (TER) or performing enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Retinoic acid receptor (RAR), toll like receptor (TLR) and tight junction (TJ) mRNA and protein expression levels in Caco-2 cells and the colon monolayers in the rat and mouse models were measured by PCR and western blotting, respectively. Co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP) and immunofluorescence staining were performed to assess the interactions among RARβ, TLR4 and zonula occluden-2 (ZO-2) in Caco-2 cells, and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assay was performed to assess the binding between RARβ and the TLR4 promoter sequence in Caco-2 cells. Results: In the present study, ATRA treatment not only increased the TER of the Caco-2 monolayer but also up-regulated the expression levels of RARβ, TLR4 and ZO-2 in Caco-2 cells. The expression levels of these three proteins were significantly decreased in the colonic epithelial monolayers of VAD rats compared with those of VAN rats and were significantly increased following VAS in the corresponding group compared with the control group. Furthermore, the above changes in TLR4 and ZO-2 expression levels were augmented or attenuated by Ad-RARβ or siRARβ infection, respectively, in Caco-2 cells. Interestingly, siTLR4 down-regulated ZO-2 expression but did not affect RARβ expression in Caco-2 cells, and in VAD mice the lack of TLR4 did not affect ZO-2 expression. We noted direct interactions between RARβ and TLR4, TLR4 and ZO-2 in Caco-2 cells, and ChIP assay showed that RARβ could bind to the TLR4 promoter but not the ZO-2 promoter in Caco-2 cells. Conclusion: Taken together, our results indicate that RARβ enhanced ZO-2 expression by regulating TLR4 to improve intestinal epithelial barrier function in Caco-2 cells, as well as in rat and mouse models, but not in Humans.
IL-4 and IL-13 employ discrete signaling pathways for target gene expression in alternatively activated monocytes/macrophages. Monocytes/macrophages are innate immune cells that play a crucial role in the resolution of inflammation. In the presence of the Th2 cytokines interleukin-4 (IL-4) and interleukin-13 (IL-13), they display an anti-inflammatory profile and this activation pathway is known as alternative activation. In this study we compare and differentiate pathways mediated by IL-4 and IL-13 activation of human monocytes/macrophages. Here we report differential regulation of IL-4 and IL-13 signaling in monocytes/macrophages starting from IL-4/IL-13 cytokine receptors to Jak/Stat-mediated signaling pathways that ultimately control expression of several inflammatory genes. Our data demonstrate that although the receptor-associated tyrosine kinases Jak2 and Tyk2 are activated after the recruitment of IL-13 to its receptor (containing IL-4Rα and IL-13Rα1), IL-4 stimulates Jak1 activation. We further show that Jak2 is upstream of Stat3 activation and Tyk2 controls Stat1 and Stat6 activation in response to IL-13 stimulation. In contrast, Jak1 regulates Stat3 and Stat6 activation in IL-4-induced monocytes. Our results further reveal that although IL-13 utilizes both IL-4Rα/Jak2/Stat3 and IL-13Rα1/Tyk2/ Stat1/Stat6 signaling pathways, IL-4 can use only the IL-4Rα/Jak1/Stat3/ Stat6 cascade to regulate the expression of some critical inflammatory genes, including 15-lipoxygenase, monoamine oxidase A (MAO-A), and the scavenger receptor CD36. Moreover, we demonstrate here that IL-13 and IL-4 can uniquely affect the expression of particular genes such as dual-specificity phosphatase 1 and tissue inhibitor of metalloprotease-3 and do so through different Jaks. As evidence of differential regulation of gene function by IL-4 and IL-13, we further report that MAO-A-mediated reactive oxygen species generation is influenced by different Jaks. Collectively, these results have major implications for understanding the mechanism and function of alternatively activated monocytes/macrophages by IL-4 and IL-13 and add novel insights into the pathogenesis and potential treatment of various inflammatory diseases.
EGF receptor-dependent YAP activation is important for renal recovery from AKI. Background Increasing evidence indicates that renal recovery from AKI stems from dedifferentiation and proliferation of surviving tubule epithelial cells. Both EGF receptor (EGFR) and the Hippo signaling pathway are implicated in cell proliferation and differentiation, and previous studies showed that activation of EGFR in renal proximal tubule epithelial cells (RPTCs) plays a critical role in recovery from ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI). In this study, we explored RPTC activation of Yes-associated protein (YAP) and transcriptional coactivator with PDZ binding motif (TAZ), two key downstream effectors of the Hippo pathway, and their potential involvement in recovery from AKI. Methods We used immunofluorescence to examine YAP expression in kidney biopsy samples from patients with clinical AKI and controls (patients with minimal change disease). Studies of RPTC activation of YAP and TAZ used cultured human RPTCs that were exposed to hypoxia-reoxygenation as well as knockout mice (with inducible deletions of Yap, Taz, or both occurring specifically in RPTCs) that were subjected to bilateral IRI. Results YAP was activated in RPTCs in kidneys from post-AKI patients and post-IRI mouse kidneys. Inhibition of the interaction of YAP and the TEA domain (TEAD) transcription factor complex by verteporfin or conditional deletion of YAP in RPTCs delayed renal functional and structural recovery from IRI, whereas TAZ deletion had no effect. Activation of the EGFR-PI3K-Akt pathway in response to IRI signaled YAP activation, which promoted cell cycle progression. Conclusions This study shows that EGFR-PI3K-Akt-dependent YAP activation plays an essential role in mediating epithelial cell regeneration during kidney recovery from AKI.
Two cis-DNA elements involved in myeloid-cell-specific expression and gamma interferon (IFN-γ) activation of the human high-affinity Fcγ receptor gene: A novel IFN regulatory mechanism. The human high-affinity receptor for the constant region of immunoglobulin G (human FcγR1) is encoded by two mRNAs induced selectively by gamma interferon (IFN-γ) and expressed in cells of myeloid lineage. The cis-DNA element (GRR) previously found to confer IFN-γ responsiveness to this gene acts as an inducible enhancer and is the target of an IFN-γ-activated factor(s) (GIRE-BP) in cells of different origins. Although the GRR motif is not related to the DNA elements involved in the regulation of other IFN- stimulated genes, GIRE-BP binding depends on the IFN-γ-dependent activation of the 91-kDa protein known to be one of the factors of a transcriptional complex activated by IFN-α. Deletions of the FcγR1 promoter allowed us to identify a 25-bp element, downstream from the GRR motif, conferring cell- type-specific expression. This element, called MATE (myeloid activating transcription element), is the DNA target for constitutive factors forming two complexes, MATE-BP1 and MATE-BP2. In accordance with the functional analysis, MATE-BP binding activities were detected in extracts prepared from myeloid cell lines such as THP-1, HL-60, and U-937 but not in HeLa cell extracts. The MATE motif is present not only in the promoter of other Fc receptor genes but also in several promoters of genes whose expression is restricted to monocytic cells. Our results suggest that human FcγR1 gene expression in myeloid cells is initiated by the interaction of IFN-γ- activated factors with cell-type-specific factors through their binding to the GRR and MATE motifs.
Bacterial lipopolysaccharide induces proliferation of IL-6-dependent plasmacytoma cells by MAPK pathway activation. Mouse plasmacytomas are appropriate models to study the biology of human multiple myeloma (MM). Growth of murine interleukin-6 (IL-6)-dependent hybridoma/plasmacytoma lines can be stimulated by bacterial lipopolysaccharides (LPS). However, the molecular mechanisms of this phenomenon are still not elucidated. In this study the in vitro action of bacterial LPS on the mouse IL-6-dependent B9 hybridoma/plasmacytoma cell line and two IL-6-dependent hybridomas was investigated. The involvement of different signal transduction pathways was established using specific kinase inhibitors in proliferation assays and immunoblotting analysis of the kinase activity. Selective mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) kinase inhibitor PD989059 inhibited both IL-6- and LPS-induced B9 cell proliferation. In contrast, in H187 and H188 cells, PD98059 inhibited only LPS-, but not IL-6-stimulated cell growth. The kinetics of MAPK activation in all cell lines showed that phosphorylation of p42 MAPK (encoded as ERK2) but not of p44 MAPK (ERK1), was considerably increased after treatment with LPS. We found that in H187 and H188 hybridomas IL-6 induced proliferation by a different STAT3-dependent mechanism. This study demonstrates the key role of the MAPK pathway in LPS-stimulated growth of mouse IL-6-dependent plasmacytoma cells. These findings suggest the presence of signaling mechanism in MM cells inducible by bacterial mitogens and possibly mediated by Toll-like receptors (TLR) - evolutionarily conserved molecules playing a central role in the microbial recognition and initiation of the cellular innate immune response.
ETS1 targets RYBP transcription to inhibit tumor cell proliferation. ETS1 (E26 transformation specific-1) is the founding member of ETS transcriptional factor family. It transcriptionally modulates numerous gene expressions, and is involved in cellular differentiation, tissue remodeling, angiogenesis, drug resistance and tumorigenesis. ETS1 is usually regarded as an oncogene. However, its apoptosis-inducing activity was also frequently reported. Here, we identified RYBP (Ring1 and YY1 binding protein), a critical epigenetic regulator and apoptosis enhancer, as a novel transcriptional target of ETS1. Specifically, we found that overexpression of ETS1 up-regulates the promoter activity of RYBP in HEK293T and tumor cells from different tissue origins, indicating a universal transcriptional regulatory effect. Subsequently, both overexpression and RNA interfering experiments demonstrated that ETS1 positively modulates RYBP expression from both mRNA and protein levels. Bioinformatics analysis combined with site-directed mutagenesis suggested that there probably exist a multiple of ETS1 binding sites in RYBP promoter region, and chromatin immunoprecipitation assay validates the physical association between ETS1 protein and RYBP promoter region. Functional studies showed that ectopic expression of ETS1 significantly suppresses tumor cell proliferation. However, this inhibitory effect was partially compromised when RYBP was concomitantly knocked down by its specific short hairpin RNA. Meanwhile, we provide evidence to demonstrate that cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21 is possibly involved in this regulatory loop. Taken together, our current study identified RYBP as a new transcriptional target which is utilized by ETS1 to carry out its tumor cell growth inhibitory effect.
Role of transforming growth factor beta in corneal function, biology and pathology. Transforming growth factor-beta (TGFβ) is a pleiotropic multifunctional cytokine that regulates several essential cellular processes in many parts of the body including the cornea. Three isoforms of TGFβ are known in mammals and the human cornea expresses all of them. TGFβ1 has been shown to play a central role in scar formation in adult corneas whereas TGFβ2 and TGFβ3 have been implicated to play a critical role in corneal development and scarless wound healing during embryogenesis. The biological effects of TGFβ in the cornea have been shown to follow Smad-dependent as well as Smad-independent signaling pathways depending upon cellular responses and microenvironment. Corneal TGFβ expression is necessary for maintaining corneal integrity and corneal wound healing. On the other hand, TGFβ is perhaps the most important cytokine in the pathogenesis of fibrotic disease in the cornea. Although the transformation of keratocytes to myofibroblasts induced by TGFβ is largely believed to cause corneal fibrosis or scarring, the precise molecular mechanism(s) involved in this process is still unknown. Currently no drugs are available to treat corneal scarring effectively without causing significant side effects. Many approaches to treat TGFβ - mediated corneal scarring are under investigation. These include blocking of TGFβ, TGFβ receptor, TGFβ function and/or TGFβ maturation. Other strategies such as modulating keratocyte proliferation, apoptosis, transcription and DNA condensation are also being investigated. The potential of gene therapy to neutralize the pathologic effects of TGFβ has also been demonstrated recently.
How the cell copes with stress and the function of heat shock proteins. Virtually all cells, including the prokaryotic microorganisms and the highly differentiated eukaryotic cells in human tissues, contain a small set of normally silent genes that are rapidly activated by a heat shock that raises the temperature only 5 to 10% above that of the normal physiologic range for that organism. Concomitantly, many active genes are turned off. Other kinds of stress, such as exposure to alcohol or other organic agents, heavy metals, oxidants, and agents capable of perturbing protein structure, produce a similar response, and many of these activate the same set of genes. The proteins encoded by these stress-activated genes are called heat shock proteins (hsp). They are strongly conserved in structure among widely divergent biologic species, and many function as 'molecular chaperones' by forming transient complexes with partially folded or misfolded polypeptides so as to prevent their irreversible denaturation. Most hsp are members of gene/protein families, and isoforms are frequently found under normal physiologic conditions in many compartments of the cell where they act also as chaperones, binding to a variety of polypeptides to facilitate folding, oligomerization, transport, metabolic activity, and degradation. Few of the polypeptide 'targets' that complex with stress-induced forms of hsp have been identified, but a number of cellular components have been shown to be particularly stress sensitive. They include macromolecular complexes involved in the maintenance of chromosome replication and transcription, mRNA splicing, and ribosome assembly. Mitochondria and the intermediate filament network are also highly sensitive, whereas the protein synthetic machinery and vesicles of the secretory pathway are relative stable to physiologic stress. The factors regulating heat shock genes in the eukaryote are highly conserved among widely divergent species and include promoters consisting of arrays of short, inverted sequences in the DNA, called the heat shock element, and heat shock factors, which are large polypeptides that occupy these promoters soon after the cell senses the temperature shift. The sensor(s) that signal the cell to initiate binding of heat shock factors to the heat shock element, thereby activating gene transcription, have not been identified, but misfolded proteins are postulated to play a key role in this event. The response is also transient, and other factors down-regulate the system. Cells that have been mildly prestressed so that they contain significant levels of the hsp become tolerant to stress conditions that would normally kill the cell. In this way, organisms survive environmental conditions that might otherwise prove fatal.
Progesterone receptor and Stat5 signaling cross Talk through RANKL in mammary epithelial cells. Progesterone (P4) stimulates proliferation of the mammary epithelium by a mechanism that involves paracrine signaling mediated from progesterone receptor (PR)-positive to neighboring PR-negative cells. Here we used a primary mouse mammary epithelial cell (MEC) culture system to define the molecular mechanism by which P4 regulates the expression of target gene effectors of proliferation including the paracrine factor receptor and activator of nuclear factor κB ligand (RANKL). MECs from adult virgin mice grown and embedded in three-dimensional basement-membrane medium resemble mammary ducts in vivo structurally and with respect to other properties including a heterogeneous pattern of PR expression, P4 induction of RANKL and other target genes in a PR-dependent manner, and a proliferative response to progestin. RANKL was demonstrated to have multiple functional P4-responsive enhancers that bind PR in a hormone-dependent manner as detected by chromatin immunoprecipitation assay. P4 also stimulated recruitment of signal transducer and activator of transcription (Stat)5a to RANKL enhancers through an apparent tethering with PR. Analysis of primary MECs from Stat5a knockout mice revealed that P4 induction of RANKL and a broad range of other PR target genes required Stat5a, as did P4-stimulated cell proliferation. In the absence of Stat5a, PR binding was lost at selective RANKL enhancers but was retained with others, suggesting that Stat5a acts to facilitate PR DNA binding at selective sites and to function as a coactivator with DNA-bound PR at others. These results show that RANKL is a direct PR target gene and that Stat5a has a novel role as a cofactor in PR-mediated transcriptional signaling in the mammary gland.
IL-1β dysregulates cgmp signaling in the newborn lung. Cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) signaling is an important regulator of newborn lung function and development. Although cGMP signaling is decreased in many models of newborn lung injury, the mechanisms are poorly understood. We determined how IL-1β regulates the expression of the α1-subunit of soluble guanylate cyclase (sGCα1), a prime effector of pulmonary cGMP signaling. Physiologic levels of IL-1β were discovered to rapidly decrease sGC1 mRNA expression in a human fetal lung fibroblast cell line (IMR-90 cells) and protein levels in primary mouse pup lung fibroblasts. This sGC1 expression inhibition appeared to be at a transcriptional level; IL-1β treatment did not alter sGCα1 mRNA stability, although it reduced sGCα1 promoter activity. Transforming growth factor-β (TGF)-activated kinase-1 (TAK1) was determined to be required for IL-1β's regulation of sGCα1 expression; TAK1 knockdown protected sGCα1 mRNA expression in IL-1β-treated IMR-90 cells. Moreover, heterologously expressed TAK1 was sufficient to decrease sGC1 mRNA levels in those cells. Nuclear factor-κB (NF-B) signaling played a critical role in the IL-1β-TAK1-sGC1 regulatory pathway; chromatin immunoprecipitation studies demonstrated enhanced activated NF-B subunit (RelA) binding to the sGC1 promoter after IL-1β treatment unless treated with an IB kinase-2 inhibitor. Also, this NF-B signaling inhibition protected sGC1 expression in IL-1β-treated fibroblasts. Lastly, using transgenic mice in which active IL-1β was conditionally expressed in lung epithelial cells, we established that IL-1β expression is sufficient to stimulate TAK1 and decrease sGC1 protein expression in the newborn lung. Together these results detail the role and mechanisms by which IL-1β inhibits cGMP signaling in the newborn lung.
Multiple regulatory events controlling the expression and localization of utrophin in skeletal muscle fibers: Insights into a therapeutic strategy for Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is the most prevalent inherited muscle disease and results from mutations/deletions in the X-linked dystrophin gene. Although several approaches have been envisaged to counteract the effects of this progressive disease, there is currently no cure available. One strategy consists in utilizing a protein normally expressed in DMD muscle which, once expressed at appropriate levels and at the correct subcellular location, could compensate for the lack of dystrophin. A candidate for such a role is the dystrophin-related protein now referred to as utrophin. In contrast to dystrophin, which is expressed along the length of healthy muscle fibers, utrophin accumulates at the neuromuscular junction in both normal and DMD fibers. Several years ago, we began a series of experiments to determine the mechanisms responsible for the expression of utrophin at the neuromuscular synapse. Initially, we showed that utrophin transcripts accumulate preferentially within the postsynaptic sarcoplasm. To determine whether selective transcription of the utrophin gene accounts for this synaptic accumulation of utrophin mRNAs, we injected several utrophin promoter-reporter constructs directly into mouse muscle and demonstrated the preferential synaptic expression of the reporter gene. These results suggested that local transcriptional activation of the utrophin gene is responsible for the accumulation of utrophin mRNAs at the neuromuscular junction. In these studies, we also demonstrated that an N-box motif contained within the utrophin promoter plays a critical role in directing the synapse-specific expression of the utrophin gene. Additionally, our studies have shown that the ets-factors GABP α and β are part of a protein complex that can bind to the N-box motif to transactivate the gene in muscle cells in culture and in vivo. In these experiments, we also noted that the nerve-derived trophic factors agrin and ARIA/heregulin regulate expression of utrophin via the activation of GABP α and β which in turn, transactivate the utrophin gene via the N-box motif. Although these studies demonstrate that transcriptional activation can regulate utrophin mRNA levels, it is possible that additional mechanisms are also involved. In particular, the association of mRNAs with cytoskeletal elements and RNA-binding proteins may contribute to the accumulation of utrophin transcripts within the postsynaptic sarcoplasm. In recent studies, we have begun to examine this and we have now identified specific regions within the 3′ untranslated region that are necessary for targeting and stabilizing utrophin mRNAs in skeletal muscle cells. A series of in vivo studies have also led us to conclude that post-transcriptional mechanisms are indeed important in regulating the abundance of utrophin transcripts in muscle. Together, these studies should lead to the identification of cis- and trans-acting elements regulating transcription of the utrophin gene as well as the stability and targeting of its mRNA in muscle cells. The results should therefore, identify specific targets that may become important in designing specific pharmacological interventions directed at increasing the expression of utrophin into extrasynaptic regions of DMD muscle fibers. In addition, these findings will contribute to our basic understanding of the cellular and molecular events involved in the formation, maintenance and plasticity of the neuromuscular synapse.
Ligation of notch receptors in human conventional and plasmacytoid dendritic cells differentially regulates cytokine and chemokine secretion and modulates Th cell polarization. Notch signaling is involved in multiple cellular processes. Recent data also support the prominent role of Notch signaling in the regulation of the immune response. In this study, we analyzed the expression and function of Notch receptors and ligands on both human blood conventional dendritic cells (cDCs) and plasmacytoid DCs (pDCs). The expression and modulation upon TLR activation of Notch molecules partially differed between cDCs and pDCs, but functional involvement of the Notch pathway in both cell types was clearly revealed by specific inhibition using DAPT. Beyond the induction of Notch target genes and modulation of maturation markers, Notch pathway was also involved in a differential secretion of some specific cytokines/chemokines by DC subsets. Whereas Notch ligation induced IL-10 and CCL19 secretion in cDCs, Notch inhibition resulted in a diminished production of these proteins.With regard to pDCs, Notch activation induced TNF-α whereas Notch inhibition significantly abrogated the secretion of CCL19, CXCL9, CXCL10, and TNF-α. Additionally, Notch modulation of DC subsets differentially affected Th polarization of allostimulated T cells. Our results suggest that the Notch pathway may function as an additional mechanism controlling human DC responses, with differential activity on cDCs and pDCs. This control mechanism may ultimately contribute to define the local milieu promoted by these cells under the particular conditions of the immune response.
BMP2 increases the production of BDNF through the upregulation of proBDNF and furin expression in human granulosa-lutein cells. Locally produced in human granulosa cells of the developing follicle, bone morphogenetic protein 2 (BMP2) plays a crucial role in the regulation of ovarian folliculogenesis and luteal formation. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is an intraovarian neurotrophic factor that has been shown to promote oocyte maturation and subsequent fertilization competency. At present, little is known regarding the intracellular regulation, assembly and secretion of endogenous BDNF in human granulosa cells. The aim of this study was to explore the effect of BMP2 on the expression and production of BDNF in human granulosa cells and the molecular mechanisms underlying this effect. An immortalized human granulosa cell line (SVOG) and primary human granulosa-lutein (hGL) cells were utilized as in vitro study models. Our results showed that BMP2 significantly increased the mRNA and secreted levels of BDNF. Additionally, BMP2 upregulated the expression of furin at the transcriptional and translational levels. Knockdown of endogenous furin partially attenuated the BMP2-induced increase in BDNF production, indicating that furin is involved in the maturation process of BDNF. Using pharmacological (kinase receptor inhibitors) and siRNA-mediated inhibition approaches, we demonstrated that BMP2-induced upregulation of BDNF and furin expression is most likely mediated by the activin receptor-like kinase (ALK)2/ALK3-SMAD4 signaling pathway. Notably, analysis using clinical samples revealed that there was a positive correlation between follicular fluid concentrations of BMP2 and those of BDNF. These results indicate that BMP2 increases the production of mature BDNF by upregulating the precursor BDNF and promoting the proteolytic processing of mature BDNF. Finally, we also investigated the effects of BMP2 on ovarian steroidogenesis and the results showed that BMP2 treatment significantly increased the accumulated level of estradiol (by upregulating the expression of FSH receptor and cytochrome P450 aromatase), whereas it decreased the accumulated level of progesterone (by downregulating the expression of LH receptors and steroidogenic acute regulatory protein) in primary hGL cells. Our findings provide a novel paracrine mechanism underlying the regulation of an intraovarian growth factor in human granulosa cells.
The liver kinase B1 is a central regulator of T cell development, activation, and metabolism. T cell activation leads to engagement of cellular metabolic pathways necessary to support cell proliferation and function. However, our understanding of the signal transduction pathways that regulate metabolism and their impact on T cell function remains limited. The liver kinase B1 (LKB1) is a serine/threonine kinase that links cellular metabolism with cell growth and proliferation. In this study, we demonstrate that LKB1 is a critical regulator of T cell development, viability, activation, and metabolism. T cell-specific ablation of the gene that encodes LKB1 resulted in blocked thymocyte development and a reduction in peripheral T cells. LKB1-deficient T cells exhibited defects in cell proliferation and viability and altered glycolytic and lipid metabolism. Interestingly, loss of LKB1 promoted increased T cell activation and inflammatory cytokine production by both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. Activation of the AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) was decreased in LKB1-deficient T cells. AMPK was found to mediate a subset of LKB1 functions in T lymphocytes, as mice lacking the α1 subunit of AMPK displayed similar defects in T cell activation, metabolism, and inflammatory cytokine production, but normal T cell development and peripheral T cell homeostasis. LKB1- and AMPKα1-deficient T cells each displayed elevated mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 signaling and IFN-γ production that could be reversed by rapamycin treatment. Our data highlight a central role for LKB1 in T cell activation, viability, and metabolism and suggest that LKB1-AMPK signaling negatively regulates T cell effector function through regulation of mammalian target of rapamycin activity.
Cytoskeletal rearrangement and signal transduction in TGF-β1-stimulated mesangial cell collagen accumulation. TGF-β1 has been implicated in glomerular extracellular matrix accumulation, although the precise cellular mechanism(s) by which this occurs is not fully understood. The authors have previously shown that the Smad signaling pathway is present and functional in human glomerular mesangial cells and plays a role in activating type I collagen gene expression. It also was determined that TGF-β1 activates ERK mitogen-activated protein kinase in mesangial cells to enhance Smad activation and collagen expression. Here, it was shown that TGF-β1 rapidly induces cytoskeletal rearrangement in human mesangial cells, stimulating smooth muscle α-actin detection in stress fibers and promoting focal adhesion complex assembly and redistribution. Disrupting the actin cytoskeleton with cytochalasin D (Cyto D) selectively decreased basal and TGF-β1-induced cell-layer collagen I and IV accumulation. The balance of matrix metalloproteinases (MMP) and inhibitors was altered by Cyto D or TGF-β1 alone, increasing MMP activity, increasing MMP-1 expression, and decreasing tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinase-2 expression. Cyto D also decreased basal and TGF-β1-stimulated α1(I) collagen mRNA but did not inhibit TGF-β-stimulated α1(IV) mRNA expression. A similar decrease in α1l(I) mRNA expression caused by the actin polymerization inhibitor latrunculin B was partially blocked by the addition of jasplakinolide, which promotes actin assembly. The Rho-family GTPase inhibitor C. difficile toxin B or the Rho-associated kinase inhibitor Y-27632 also blocked TGF-β1-stimulated α1(I) mRNA expression. Cytoskeletal disruption reduced Smad2 phosphorylation but had little effect on mRNA stability, TGF-β receptor number, or receptor affinity. Thus, TGF-β1-mediated collagen I accumulation is associated with cytoskeletal rearrangement and Rho-GTPase signaling.
Long Non-coding RNA Maternally Expressed 3 Increases the Expression of Neuron-Specific Genes by Targeting miR-128-3p in All-Trans Retinoic Acid-Induced Neurogenic Differentiation From Amniotic Epithelial Cells. MicroRNA (miR)-128-3p is a brain-enriched miRNA that participates in the regulation of neural cell differentiation and the protection of neurons, but the mechanisms by which miR-128-3p regulates its target and downstream genes to influence cell fate from adult stem cells are poorly understood. In this study, we show down-regulation of miR-128-3p during all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA)-induced neurogenic differentiation from amniotic epithelial cells (AECs). We investigated miR-128-3p in both the Notch pathway and in the expression of neuron-specific genes predicted to be involved in miR-128-3p signaling to elucidate its role in the genetic regulation of downstream neurogenic differentiation. Our results demonstrate that miR-128-3p is a negative regulator for the transcription of the neuron-specific genes β III-tubulin, neuron-specific enolase (NSE), and polysialic acid-neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM) via targeting Jagged 1 to inhibit activation of the Notch signaling pathway. We also used bioinformatics algorithms to screen for miR-128-3p interactions with long non-coding (lnc) RNA and circular RNA as competing endogenous RNAs to further elucidate underlying down-regulated molecular mechanisms. The lncRNA maternally expressed 3 is up-regulated by the ATRA/cAMP/CREB pathway, and it, in turn, is directly down-regulated by miR-128-3p to increase the amount of neuron differentiation. Endogenous miRNAs are, therefore, involved in neurogenic differentiation from AECs and should be considered during the development of effective cell transplant therapies for the treatment of neurodegenerative disease.
Both ERK and JNK are required for enhancement of MD-2 gene expression during differentiation of HL-60 cells. Background information. MD-2 is associated with the extracellular domain of TLR4 (Toll-like receptor 4) and augments TLR4-dependent LPS (lipopolysaccharide) responses in vitro. Our previous investigation found that PMA-induced HL-60 cell differentiation to macrophages is associated largely with TLR2 and CD14 and, to a much lesser extent, with TLR4. Results. We studied the MD-2 expression during differentiation of HL-60 cells induced by PMA. The results showed that PMA, but not VitD3 (1α,25-dihydroxy-vitamin D3), strongly induces MD-2 gene expression by HL-60 cells in a time- and dose-dependent manner. Treatment with an MEK [MAPK (mitogen-activated protein kinase)/ERK (extracellular-signal-regulated kinase) kinase) inhibitor (PD98059) and a JNK (c-Jun N-terminal kinase) inhibitor (SP600125) suppresses PMA-induced MD-2 gene expression, whereas impairment of p38 function by treatment with the inhibitor SS203580 has no effect on MD-2 mRNA. In order to reveal the possible molecular mechanism for such a regulation of MD-2 gene expression, we cloned and analysed the putative MD-2 gene promoter. Transient transfection of different deletion mutants demonstrated that the region -185/-171 (5′-TCCTTTACAGGAAGT-3′) of the MD-2 gene promoter is closely related to gene transcription in response to PMA. Additionally, the transcription factor Elk-1 has been found to bind:this specific motif. Conclusions. These results suggest that ERK and JNK pathways are involved in PMA-mediated MID-2 gene expression during HL-60 cell differentiation, and the activation of the MEK/possible ERK/Elk signal pathway is the mechanism responsible for PMA-induced MD-2 gene expression in differentiated HL-60 cells.
Multiple signaling pathways regulate NF-κB-dependent transcription of the monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 gene in primary endothelial cells. The cytokine-induced C-C chemokine monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) is an important regulator of leukocyte recruitment to sites of inflammatory challenge. Here, it is demonstrated that the widely distributed contact hapten NiCl2, like tumor necrosis factor α (TNFα), induces monocyte-chemoattractant activity in primary human endothelial cells via induction of MCP-1. NiCl2 rapidly activated mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase p38, and inhibition of p38 partially blocked NiCl2-induced MCP-1 messenger RNA and protein expression. Both NiCl2- and TNFα-induced MCP-1 synthesis was sensitive to D609, an inhibitor of phosphatidylcholine-dependent phospholipase C (PC-PLC). NiCl2-induced MCP-1 synthesis required activation of NF-κB since mutation of NF-κB-binding sites in the promoter resulted in complete loss of inducible promoter activity. Consistent with that finding, stimulation with NiCl2 or TNFα activated IκB kinase-β (IKKβ), and transient transfection of dominant-negative IKKβ strongly inhibited NiCl2- and TNFα-induced MCP-1 expression. However, D609 and the specific p38 inhibitor SB202190 did not affect NiCl2- and TNFα-induced IKKβ activation, NF-κB DNA-binding activity, or transcriptional activity of a Gal4p65 fusion protein. This indicates that p38- and PC-PLC-dependent pathways directly regulate the transcriptional activity of NF-κB factors in the transcriptional complex. Consistent with that, inhibition of p38 blocked enhanced transcriptional activity induced by the transcriptional coactivator p300. Thus, it was concluded that at least 3 independent pathways regulate MCP-1 expression in endothelial cells. Its induction requires activation of the IKKβ/IκBα/NF-κB signaling pathway, resulting in nuclear accumulation of p65 and subsequent recruitment of cofactors. Proper assembly and activity of this transcriptional complex is further modulated by the p38 MAP kinase cascade and a PC-PLC-dependent pathway.
pp90RSK- and protein kinase C-dependent pathway regulates p42/44MAPK-induced LDL receptor transcription in HepG2 cells. We have previously shown that different extracellular stimuli require signaling through the Raf/MEK/p42/ 44MAPK cascade to induce LDL receptor expression. The present studies were designed to delineate the molecular mechanisms underlying p42/44MAPK-induced LDL receptor transcription in HepG2-ΔRaf-1:ER cells, a modified HepG2 cell line in which the Raf-1/MEK/p42/44MAPK cascade can be specifically activated by anti-estradiol ICI182,780 in an agonist-specific manner. Using these cells, we show that: a) LDL receptor induction was reduced in reporter constructs containing mutation in either Sp1 or sterol-regulatory element-1 (SRE-1) sites, whereas inactivation of both sites abolished the induction; b) E1A, which inhibits CREB binding protein (CBP), a common activator of SRE-1 binding protein and Spl, strongly repressed the induction; c) intracellular inhibition of the 90 kDa ribosomal S6 kinase (pp90RSK) cascade reduced LDL receptor induction; d) highly selective protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitors effectively abrogated the induction without affecting activation of pp90 RSK; and e) overexpression of PKCβ significantly induced LDL receptor promoter activity. Taken together, these results demonstrate that pp90RSK and PKCβ are downstream effectors and Sp1, SRE-1 binding protein, and CBP are part of the transcriptional complex resulting in induction of LDL receptor expression in response to activation of the Raf/MEK/p42/44MAPK cascade. These findings identify for the first time a role for PKCβ in determining the specificity of p42/44 MAPK signaling by participating with pp90RSK in regulating gene expression.
Alternative mRNA fates identified in microRNA-associated transcriptome analysis. Background: MicroRNA (miRNA) are small non-coding RNA molecules which function as nucleic acid-based specificity factors in the universal RNA binding complex known as the RNA induced silencing complex (RISC). In the canonical gene-silencing pathway, these activated RISC particles are associated with RNA decay and gene suppression, however, there is evidence to suggest that in some circumstances they may also stabilise their target RNA and even enhance translation. To further explore the role of miRNA in this context, we performed a genome-wide expression analysis to investigate the molecular consequences of bidirectional modulation of the disease-associated miRNAs miR-181b and miR-107 in multiple human cell lines.Results: This data was subjected to pathways analysis and correlated against miRNA targets predicted through seed region homology. This revealed a large number of both conserved and non-conserved miRNA target genes, a selection of which were functionally validated through reporter gene assays. Contrary to expectation we also identified a significant proportion of predicted target genes with both conserved and non-conserved recognition elements that were positively correlated with the modulated miRNA. Finally, a large proportion of miR-181b associated genes devoid of the corresponding miRNA recognition element, were enriched with binding motifs for the E2F1 transcription factor, which is encoded by a miR-181b target gene.Conclusions: These findings suggest that miRNA regulate target genes directly through interactions with both conserved and non-conserved target recognition elements, and can lead to both a decrease and increase in transcript abundance. They also multiply their influence through interaction with transcription factor genes exemplified by the observed miR-181b/E2F1 relationship.
Deregulation of a STAT3-interleukin 8 signaling pathway promotes human glioblastoma cell proliferation and invasiveness. Inactivation of the tumor suppressor phosphatase and tensin homolog (mutated in multiple advanced cancers 1) (PTEN) is recognized as a major event in the pathogenesis of the brain tumor glioblastoma. However, the mechanisms by which PTEN loss specifically impacts the malignant behavior of glioblastoma cells, including their proliferation and propensity for invasiveness, remain poorly understood. Genetic studies suggest that the transcription factor signal transducers and activators of transcription 3 (STAT3) harbors a PTEN-regulated tumor suppressive function in mouse astrocytes. Here, we report that STAT3 plays a critical tumor suppressive role in PTEN-deficient human glioblastoma cells. Endogenous STAT3 signaling is specifically inhibited in PTEN-deficient glioblastoma cells. Strikingly, reactivation of STAT3 in PTEN-deficient glioblastoma cells inhibits their proliferation, invasiveness, and ability to spread on myelin. We also identify the chemokine interleukin 8 (IL8) as a novel target gene of STAT3 in human glioblastoma cells. Activated STAT3 occupies the endogenous IL8 promoter and directly represses IL8 transcription. Consistent with these results, IL8 is upregulated in PTEN-deficient human glioblastoma tumors. Importantly, IL8 repression mediates STAT3 inhibition of glioblastoma cell proliferation, invasiveness, and spreading on myelin. Collectively, our findings uncover a novel link between STAT3 and IL8, the deregulation of which plays a key role in the malignant behavior of PTEN-deficient glioblastoma cells. These studies suggest that STAT3 activation or IL8 inhibition may have potential in patient-tailored treatment of PTEN-deficient brain tumors.
The thermodynamic mechanism of peptide-MHC class II complex formation is a determinant of susceptibility to HLA-DM. Peptides bind MHC class II molecules through a thermodynamically nonadditive process consequent to the flexibility of the reactants. Currently, how the specific outcome of this binding process affects the ensuing epitope selection needs resolution. Calorimetric assessment of binding thermodynamics for hemagglutinin 306-319 peptide variants to the human MHC class II HLA-DR1 (DR1) and a mutant DR1 reveals that peptide/DR1 complexes can be formed with different enthalpic and entropic contributions. Complexes formed with a smaller entropic penalty feature circular dichroism spectra consistent with a non-compact form, and molecular dynamics simulation shows a more flexible structure. The opposite binding mode, compact and less flexible, is associated with greater entropic penalty. These structural variations are associated with rearrangements of residues known to be involved in HLA-DR (DM) binding, affinity of DM for the complex, and complex susceptibility to DM-mediated peptide exchange. Thus, the thermodynamic mechanism of peptide binding to DR1 correlates with the structural rigidity of the complex, and DM mediates peptide exchange by "sensing" flexible complexes in which the aforementioned residues are rearranged at a higher frequency than in more rigid ones.
Single nucleotide polymorphism analysis of the human adenosine A2B receptor gene: Prevalence of SNPs in asthmatics and normal subjects. The adenosine A2B receptor is found on human lung mast cells and is believed to mediate the bronchoconstriction in response to adenosine characteristic of asthmatics. As such it represents an attractive therapeutic target for asthma and allergic rhinitis. As genetic variability in drug targets may affect an individual's response to treatment, the adenosine A2B receptor gene was analyzed for polymorphisms and their prevalence defined in a Caucasian population. The coding region of the A2B receptor gene as well as the intron-exon boundaries of the gene were found to be free of genetic variation. Three single nucleotide polymorphisms were identified in the promoter region of the gene, one of which created a BamHI restriction fragment length polymorphism. The prevalence of the three single nucleotide polymorphisms in an unselected population was <5%. The prevalence of the BamHI polymorphism was investigated in a British population of 40 asthmatics and 40 non-asthmatics: no excess of the BamHI variant was observed in asthmatic subjects. The data indicates that any variability in drug response would likely not be due to direct structural variation of the A2B receptor protein. Further, polymorphism at the A2B receptor genomic locus is unlikely to contribute to the population risk of developing asthma.
The effects of common structural variants on 3D chromatin structure. Background: Three-dimensional spatial organization of chromosomes is defined by highly self-interacting regions 0.1-1 Mb in size termed Topological Associating Domains (TADs). Genetic factors that explain dynamic variation in TAD structure are not understood. We hypothesize that common structural variation (SV) in the human population can disrupt regulatory sequences and thereby influence TAD formation. To determine the effects of SVs on 3D chromatin organization, we performed chromosome conformation capture sequencing (Hi-C) of lymphoblastoid cell lines from 19 subjects for which SVs had been previously characterized in the 1000 genomes project. We tested the effects of common deletion polymorphisms on TAD structure by linear regression analysis of nearby quantitative chromatin interactions (contacts) within 240 kb of the deletion, and we specifically tested the hypothesis that deletions at TAD boundaries (TBs) could result in large-scale alterations in chromatin conformation. Results: Large (> 10 kb) deletions had significant effects on long-range chromatin interactions. Deletions were associated with increased contacts that span the deleted region and this effect was driven by large deletions that were not located within a TAD boundary (nonTB). Some deletions at TBs, including a 80 kb deletion of the genes CFHR1 and CFHR3, had detectable effects on chromatin contacts. However for TB deletions overall, we did not detect a pattern of effects that was consistent in magnitude or direction. Large inversions in the population had a distinguishable signature characterized by a rearrangement of contacts that span its breakpoints. Conclusions: Our study demonstrates that common SVs in the population impact long-range chromatin structure, and deletions and inversions have distinct signatures. However, the effects that we observe are subtle and variable between loci. Genome-wide analysis of chromatin conformation in large cohorts will be needed to quantify the influence of common SVs on chromatin structure.
Multi-platform discovery of haplotype-resolved structural variation in human genomes. The incomplete identification of structural variants (SVs) from whole-genome sequencing data limits studies of human genetic diversity and disease association. Here, we apply a suite of long-read, short-read, strand-specific sequencing technologies, optical mapping, and variant discovery algorithms to comprehensively analyze three trios to define the full spectrum of human genetic variation in a haplotype-resolved manner. We identify 818,054 indel variants (<50 bp) and 27,622 SVs (≥50 bp) per genome. We also discover 156 inversions per genome and 58 of the inversions intersect with the critical regions of recurrent microdeletion and microduplication syndromes. Taken together, our SV callsets represent a three to sevenfold increase in SV detection compared to most standard high-throughput sequencing studies, including those from the 1000 Genomes Project. The methods and the dataset presented serve as a gold standard for the scientific community allowing us to make recommendations for maximizing structural variation sensitivity for future genome sequencing studies.
